Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning  Page 39
The profile shown in Figure 6 has “plus levels” between the Common Reference Levels. It sets a relatively high priority (B1)
on reception – including reading as a leisure activity – on goal-oriented co-operation, facilitating collaborative interaction
and oral production. The highest priority, though, is on understanding the interlocutor (B2), in this case CLIL, presumably
the teacher. The profile shown in Figure 7 (postgraduate science student) also puts an emphasis on reception (C1) and
on certain aspects of mediation: collaborating to construct meaning, explaining data and processing text. Profiles can be
created for various groups, particularly in professional or in specialised educational areas. Stakeholders can be consulted in
a two-step process: first to establish the relevant descriptor scales and secondly to determine realistic goals for each one.
Graphic profiles such as those shown in Figures 6 and 7 can also be used to describe the current language
proficiency of a user/learner. One can see the development of individual proficiency as a gain of space over
time: a gain in relevant terrain.31 A realistic graphic profile of any individual’s proficiency would be more like the
uneven Figures 6 and 7 than the more abstract perfection levels shown as concentric circles in Figure 3.
Figure 7 – A profile of needs in an additional language – postgraduate natural sciences (fictional)
Understanding conversation between other
speakers
Understanding as a member of a live audience
Note-taking (lectures, seminars, meetings, etc.)
Reading for orientation
Reading for information and argument
Understanding an interlocutor
Informal discussion (with friends)
Formal discussion (meetings)
Goal-oriented co-operation
Information exchange
Goal-oriented online transactions and
collaboration
Sustained monologue: giving information
Sustained monologue: putting a case
Addressing audiences
Reports and essays
Facilitating pluricultural space
Facilitating collaborative interaction with peers
Collaborating to construct meaning
Encouraging conceptual talk
Explaining data (graphs, diagrams, etc.)
Processing text in writing
MEDIATION
RECEPTION
INTERACTION
PRODUCTION
C2
C1
B2
B1
A2
A1
However, for a personal profile of proficiency, working with fewer categories is probably desirable in most
circumstances. Figures 6 and 7 worked with the descriptor scales for different, detailed types of activities. A
simpler alternative is to use only the seven overall scales (“Overall oral comprehension”,32 etc.). On the other
hand, there is no reason why the profile should be confined to one language.
One can take things a stage further and create graphic plurilingual profiles for individual user/learners. Figure 8
shows a plurilingual profile inspired by a model developed in a Canadian project.33 Profiles for different languages
are superimposed on each other in the same graphic. The figure shows a profile of “partial competences” not
atypical of an adult user/learner: far stronger in reading in all languages.
Such a profile can show the way in which the proficiency of any user/learner is almost always going to be uneven, partial.
It will be influenced by home background, by the needs of the situation in which the person has found themselves,
and by their experience, including transversal competences acquired in general education, in using other languages,
in professional life. The profiles of any two user/learners at the same level are thus unlikely to be absolutely identical
31.	 The 1996 and 1998 provisional versions of the CEFR contained a diagram like Figures 6 and 7 to illustrate this analogy of language
proficiency profiles as spatial, territorial; in the working group the particular diagram was referred to as “Antarctica” because of its
shape. It was considered too complicated a concept for the time and was dropped from the published version.
32.	 Oral comprehension, oral production and oral interaction are each taken to include both spoken and signed modalities, as appropriate
in the context.
33.	 LINCDIRE: LINguistic & Cultural DIversity REinvented, available at www.lincdireproject.org/.