Planning
This scale is concerned with mental preparation before speaking, signing or writing. It can involve thinking
consciously about what to say and how to formulate it; it can also involve rehearsal or the preparation of drafts.
Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f working out how to express the point that needs to be transmitted, and perhaps rehearsing expression;
f considering how recipients may react to what is said.
Planning
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can, when preparing a more formal text, consciously adopt the conventions linked to the particular type of
text concerned (e.g. structure, level of formality).
B2
Can, in preparing for a potentially complicated or awkward situation, plan what to say in the event of
different reactions, reflecting on what expression would be appropriate.
Can plan what is to be said and the means to say it, considering the effect on the recipient(s).
B1
Can rehearse and try out new combinations and expressions, inviting feedback.
Can work out how to communicate the main point(s) they want to get across, exploiting any resources
available and limiting the message to what they can recall or find the means to express.
A2
Can recall and rehearse an appropriate set of phrases from their repertoire.
A1
No descriptors available
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
Compensating
Compensating is a strategy for maintaining communication when one cannot think of the appropriate expression.
Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f accompanying gestures to support language;
f deliberately using a “wrong” word/sign and qualifying it;
f defining the missing concept;
f paraphrase (circumlocution) and the extent to which such paraphrasing is evident.
Compensating
C2
Can substitute an equivalent term for a word/sign they can’t recall, so smoothly that it is scarcely
noticeable.
C1
Can exploit their range of vocabulary options creatively so as to readily and effectively use circumlocution
in almost all situations.
B2
Can use circumlocution and paraphrase to cover gaps in vocabulary and structure.
Can address most communication problems by using circumlocution, or by avoiding difficult expressions.
B1
Can define the features of something concrete for which they can’t remember the word/sign.
Can convey meaning by qualifying a word/sign meaning something similar (e.g. a truck for people = bus).
Can use a simple word/sign meaning something similar to the concept they want to convey and invite
“correction”.
Can “foreignise” word/signs in their first language and ask for confirmation.
A2
Can use an inadequate word/sign from their repertoire and use gestures to clarify what they mean.
Can identify what they mean by pointing to it (e.g. “I’d like this, please”).
A1
Can use gestures to support simple words/signs in expressing a need.
Pre-A1
Can point to something and ask what it is.