Conversation
B1
Can start up a conversation and help keep it going by asking people relatively spontaneous questions
about a special experience or event, expressing reactions and opinions on familiar subjects.
Can have relatively long conversations on subjects of common interest, provided the interlocutor makes an
effort to support understanding.
Can enter unprepared into conversations on familiar topics.
Can follow clearly articulated language directed at them in everyday conversation, though will sometimes
have to ask for repetition of particular words/signs.
Can maintain a conversation or discussion but may sometimes be difficult to follow when trying to express
exactly what they would like to.
Can express and respond to feelings such as surprise, happiness, sadness, interest and indifference.
A2
Can establish social contact (e.g. greetings and farewells, introductions, giving thanks).
Can generally understand clear, standard language on familiar matters directed at them, provided they can
ask for repetition or reformulation from time to time.
Can participate in short conversations in routine contexts on topics of interest.
Can express how they feel in simple terms, and express thanks.
Can ask for a favour (e.g. to borrow something), can offer a favour, and can respond if someone asks them
to do a favour for them.
Can handle very short social exchanges but is rarely able to understand enough to keep conversation
going of their own accord, though they can be made to understand if the interlocutor will take the trouble.
Can use simple, everyday, polite forms of greeting and address.
Can converse in simple language with peers, colleagues or members of a host family, asking questions and
understanding answers relating to most routine matters.
Can make and respond to invitations, suggestions and apologies.
Can express how they are feeling, using very basic stock expressions.
Can state what they like and dislike.
A1
Can understand everyday expressions aimed at the satisfaction of simple needs of a concrete type,
delivered directly to them in clear, slow and repeated language by a sympathetic interlocutor.
Can take part in a simple conversation of a basic factual nature on a predictable topic (e.g. their home
country, family, school).
Can make an introduction and use basic greeting and leave-taking expressions.
Can ask how people are and react to news.
Pre-A1
Can understand and use basic, formulaic expressions such as “Yes”, “No”, “Excuse me”, “Please”, “Thank you”,
“No thank you”, “Sorry”.
Can recognise simple greetings.
Can greet people, state their name and take leave in a simple way.
Informal discussion (with friends)
This scale includes aspects of both the interpersonal and evaluative use of language, since these tend to be
interwoven in everyday interaction. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f topics: from what to do and where to go, to abstract, complex and even unfamiliar topics and sensitive issues;
f ability to follow the discussion: from identifying the topic, through following the main points, to keeping
up with animated discussion and understanding colloquial references;
f language functions: from discussing and (dis)agreeing in a limited way to expressing ideas with precision
and dealing diplomatically with disagreement and criticism.