Understanding conversation between other people
This scale concerns two main situations: the first is when other participants in a group interaction talk/sign across
the user/learner to each other, so that the user/learner is no longer directly addressed. The second situation
is when the user/learner is an overhearer to a conversation between other people nearby. Both situations are
noticeably more difficult than when the user/learner is directly addressed, firstly because there is no element
of accommodation to them and because the speakers/signers may have shared assumptions, experiences they
refer to and even variants in usage, and secondly because the user/learner, not being an addressee, has no
“right” to ask for clarification, repetition, etc. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f picking up and connecting words/signs, phrases, etc.;
f catching enough to identify the topic, and changes of topic;
f identifying chronological progression, for example a story;
f identifying when people agree and disagree, and points made for and against an issue;
f identifying attitudes and sociocultural implications (C levels).
Understanding conversation between other people
C2
Can identify the sociocultural implications of most of the language used in colloquial discussions that
take place at a natural speed.
C1
Can easily follow complex interactions between third parties in group discussion and debate, even on
abstract, complex, unfamiliar topics.
Can identify the attitude of each participant in an animated discussion characterised by overlapping
turns, digressions and colloquialisms that is delivered at a natural speed in varieties that are familiar.
B2
Can keep up with an animated conversation between proficient users of the target language.
Can with some effort catch much of what is said around them, but may find it difficult to participate
effectively in discussion with several users of the target language who do not modify their language in
any way.
Can identify the main reasons for and against an argument or idea in a discussion conducted in clear
standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow chronological sequence in extended informal discourse, e.g. in a story or anecdote.
B1
Can follow much of everyday conversation and discussion, provided it is clearly articulated in standard
language or in a familiar variety.
Can generally follow the main points of extended discussion around them, provided it is clearly
articulated in standard language or a familiar variety.
A2
Can generally identify the topic of discussion around them when it is conducted slowly and clearly.
Can recognise when people agree and disagree in a conversation conducted slowly and clearly.
Can follow in outline short, simple social exchanges, conducted very slowly and clearly.
A1
Can understand some expressions when people are discussing them, family, school, hobbies or
surroundings, provided the delivery is slow and clear.
Can understand words/signs and short sentences in a simple conversation (e.g. between a customer and
a salesperson in a shop), provided people communicate very slowly and very clearly.
Pre-A1
No descriptors available