Public announcements
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can deliver announcements fluently, almost effortlessly, using stress and intonation to convey finer shades
of meaning precisely.
B2
Can deliver announcements on most general topics with a degree of clarity, fluency and spontaneity which
causes no strain or inconvenience to the recipient.
B1
Can deliver short, rehearsed announcements on a topic pertinent to everyday occurrences in their field
which, despite possible problems with stress and intonation (= non-manuals in a sign language), are
nevertheless clearly intelligible.
A2
Can deliver very short, rehearsed announcements of predictable, learnt content which are intelligible to
recipients who are prepared to concentrate.
A1
No descriptors available
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
Addressing audiences
This scale involves giving an oral presentation at a public event, in a meeting, seminar or class. Although the
talk is clearly prepared, it is not usually read word for word/sign for sign. Nowadays it is conventional to use
visual aids like PowerPoint, but this need not be the case. After a presentation, it is customary to take questions
spontaneously, answering in a short monologue, so this is included in the descriptors as well. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale include the following:
f type of address: from a very short, rehearsed statement, through a prepared, straightforward presentation
on a familiar topic within their field, to a well-structured presentation on a complex subject given to an
audience unfamiliar with it;
f consideration of the audience: there is no comment at the A levels, but from B1 the progression goes from
being clear enough to be followed without difficulty most of the time, to structuring and adapting the talk
flexibly to meet the needs of the audience;
f ability to handle questions: from answering straightforward questions with some help, through taking a
series of follow-up questions fluently and spontaneously, to handling difficult and even hostile questioning.
Addressing audiences
C2
Can present a complex topic confidently and articulately to an audience unfamiliar with it, structuring and
adapting the talk flexibly to meet the audience’s needs.
Can handle difficult and even hostile questioning.
C1
Can give a clear, well-structured presentation on a complex subject, expanding and supporting points of
view at some length with subsidiary points, reasons and relevant examples.
Can structure a longer presentation appropriately in order to help the audience follow the sequence of
ideas and understand the overall argumentation.
Can speculate or hypothesise in presenting a complex subject, comparing and evaluating alternative
proposals and arguments.
Can handle interjections well, responding spontaneously and almost effortlessly.
B2
Can give a clear, systematically developed presentation, with highlighting of significant points, and
relevant supporting detail.
Can depart spontaneously from a prepared text and follow up interesting points raised by members of the
audience, often showing remarkable fluency and ease of expression.
Can give a clear, prepared presentation, giving reasons in support of or against a particular point of view
and giving the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
Can take a series of follow-up questions with a degree of fluency and spontaneity which poses no strain for
either themselves or the audience.