21.	 Recommendation CM/Rec(2008)7 of the Committee of Ministers on the use of the Council of Europe’s Common European Framework
of Reference for Languages (CEFR) and the promotion of plurilingualism, available at https://search.coe.int/cm/Pages/result_details.
aspx?ObjectId=09000016805d2fb1.
Chapter 2
KEY ASPECTS OF THE CEFR FOR
TEACHING AND LEARNING
The Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages: Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR)
presents a comprehensive descriptive scheme
of language proficiency and a set of Common
Reference Levels (A1 to C2) defined in illustrative
descriptor scales, plus options for curriculum design
promoting plurilingual and intercultural education,
further elaborated in the Guide for the development
and implementation of curricula for plurilingual and
intercultural education (Beacco et al. 2016a).
One of the main principles of the CEFR is the promotion
of the positive formulation of educational aims and
outcomes at all levels. Its “can do” definition of aspects
of proficiency provides a clear, shared roadmap for
learning, and a far more nuanced instrument to gauge
progress than an exclusive focus on scores in tests and
examinations. This principle is based on the CEFR view
of language as a vehicle for opportunity and success
in social, educational and professional domains. This
key feature contributes to the Council of Europe’s
goal of quality inclusive education as a right of all
citizens. The Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers
recommends the “use of the CEFR as a tool for coherent,
transparent and effective plurilingual education in such
a way as to promote democratic citizenship, social
cohesion and intercultural dialogue”.21
Background to the CEFR
The CEFR was developed as a continuation
of the Council of Europe’s work in language
education during the 1970s and 1980s. The
CEFR “action-oriented approach” builds on and
goes beyond the communicative approach
proposed in the mid-1970s in the publication
“The Threshold Level”, the first functional/
notional specification of language needs.
The CEFR and the related European Language
Portfolio (ELP) that accompanied it were
recommended by an intergovernmental
symposium held in Switzerland in 1991. As
its subtitle suggests, the CEFR is concerned
principally with learning and teaching. It aims to
facilitate transparency and coherence between
the curriculum, teaching and assessment
within an institution and transparency
and coherence between institutions,
educational sectors, regions and countries.
The CEFR was piloted in provisional versions
in 1996 and 1998 before being published
in English (Cambridge University Press).
As well as being used as a reference tool by almost all member states of the Council of Europe and the European
Union, the CEFR has also had – and continues to have – considerable influence beyond Europe. In fact, the
CEFR is being used not only to provide transparency and clear reference points for assessment purposes but
also, increasingly, to inform curriculum reform and pedagogy. This development reflects the forward-looking
conceptual underpinning of the CEFR and has paved the way for a new phase of work around the CEFR, leading to
the extension of the illustrative descriptors published in this edition. Before presenting the illustrative descriptors,
however, a reminder of the purpose and nature of the CEFR is outlined. First, we consider the aims of the CEFR,
its descriptive scheme and the action-oriented approach, then the Common Reference Levels and creation of
profiles in relation to them, plus the illustrative descriptors themselves, and finally the concepts of plurilingualism/
pluriculturalism and mediation that were introduced to language education by the CEFR.