Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning  Page 33
With its communicative language activities and strategies, the CEFR replaces the traditional model of the four
skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing), which has increasingly proved inadequate in capturing the complex
reality of communication. Moreover, organisation by the four skills does not lend itself to any consideration of
purpose or macro-function. The organisation proposed by the CEFR is closer to real-life language use, which
is grounded in interaction in which meaning is co-constructed. Activities are presented under four modes of
communication: reception, production, interaction and mediation.
The development of the CEFR categories for communicative activities was considerably influenced by the
distinction between transaction and interpersonal language use, and between interpersonal and ideational
language use (development of ideas). This can be seen in Table 3.
Table 3 – Macro-functional basis of CEFR categories for communicative language activities
Reception
Production
Interaction
Mediation
Creative,
interpersonal
language use
e.g. Reading as a
leisure activity
e.g. Sustained
monologue: describing
experience
e.g. Conversation
Mediating
communication
Transactional
language use
e.g. Reading for
information and
argument
e.g. Sustained
monologue: giving
information
e.g. Obtaining goods
and services
Information exchange
Mediating a text
Evaluative,
problem-
solving
language use
(merged with Reading
for information and
argument)
e.g. Sustained
monologue: presenting
a case (e.g. in a debate)
e.g. Discussion
Mediating
concepts
With regard to the approach to language activities set out in Table 3, the following list of advantages of such a
development beyond the four skills is taken from one of the preparatory studies written in the lead-up to the
development of the CEFR:29
f the proposed categories (reception, production, interaction, mediation) make sense not just for insiders but
also for users: such categories better reflect the way people actually use the language than the four skills do;
f since these are the types of categories used in language training for the world of work, a link between
general purpose language and language for specific purposes (LSP) would be facilitated;
f pedagogic tasks involving collaborative small group interaction in the classroom, project work, pen friend
correspondence and language examination interviews would be easier to situate with this model;
f organisation in terms of transparent activities in specific contexts of use would facilitate the recording and
profiling of the “slices of life” that make up the language learner’s experience;
f such an approach based on genre encourages the activation of content schemata and acquisition of the
formal schemata (discourse organisation) appropriate to the genre;
f categories that highlight interpersonal and sustained self-expression are central by A2 and may help
counterbalance the pervasive transmission metaphor that sees language as information transfer;
f a move away from the matrix of four skills and three elements (grammatical structure, vocabulary, phono-
logy/graphology) may promote communicative criteria for quality of performance;
f the distinction “reception, interaction, production” recalls classifications used for learning and performance
strategies and may well facilitate a broader concept of strategic competence;
f the distinction “reception, interaction, production, mediation” actually marks a progression of difficulty
and so might aid the development of the concept of partial qualifications;
f such relatively concrete contexts of use (tending towards supra-genres/speech events rather than abstract
skills or functions) make the link to realistic assessment tasks in examinations easier to establish, and should
help facilitate the provision of more concrete descriptors.
29.	 North B. (1994) “Perspectives on language proficiency and aspects of competence: a reference paper defining categories and levels”,
CC-LANG Vol. 94, No. 20, Council of Europe Publishing, Strasbourg.