In the updated and extended set of descriptors in this document, the level referred to above has been labelled
Pre-A1 and developed further on the basis of descriptors from the Swiss Lingualevel project and the Japanese
CEFR-J project, both targeted at primary and lower secondary school.
The CEFR stresses that the levels are reference levels and that, in any given context, users may well want to
subdivide them, illustrating ways in which this might be done in different contexts (CEFR 2001 Section 3.5). In
the same section, the CEFR introduced the idea of the plus levels.
In the illustrative descriptors a distinction is made between the “criterion levels” (for example A2 or A2.1) and
the “plus levels” (for example A2+ or A2.2). The latter are distinguished from the former by a horizontal line, as
in this example for “Overall oral comprehension”.
A2
Can understand enough to be able to meet needs of a concrete type, provided people articulate clearly and
slowly.
Can understand phrases and expressions related to areas of most immediate priority (e.g. very basic
personal and family information, shopping, local geography, employment), provided people articulate
clearly and slowly.
Plus levels represent a very strong competence at a level that does not yet reach the minimum standard for the
next criterion level. Generally, features of the level above are starting to appear. Descriptors from the “plus levels”
are not included in the three tables that introduce the CEFR levels in CEFR 2001 Chapter 3 (CEFR Tables 1, 2 and 3).
2.7. CEFR PROFILES
Levels are a necessary simplification. We need levels in order to organise learning, track progress and answer questions
like “How good is your French?” or “What proficiency should we require from candidates?” However, any simple answer like
B2 – or even B2 receptive, B1 productive – hides a complex profile. The reason the CEFR includes so many descriptor scales
is to encourage users to develop differentiated profiles. Descriptor scales can be used firstly to identify which language
activities are relevant for a particular group of learners and, secondly, to establish which level those learners need to achieve
in those activities in order to accomplish their goals. This can be illustrated with the two fictional examples of individual
language profiles shown in Figures 6 and 7. In each case, the four shapes in Figures 6 and 7 show the desired profile for
reception, interaction, production and mediation respectively. The labels around the edge of the circle are the descriptor
scales that are considered to be relevant, and the proficiency level deemed to be desirable on each descriptor scale is
indicated by the shading. Notice that the descriptor scales included in the two diagrams are not identical. Only those activities
considered to be relevant would be included. Profiles like Figures 6 and 7 may be produced for individuals in the context
of very intensive LSP training, but the technique is also very useful for analysing the needs of particular groups of learners.
Figure 6 – A fictional profile of needs in an additional language – lower secondary CLIL
Understanding conversation between other speakers
Understanding audio or signed  media recordings
Watching TV, ﬁlm and video
Reading for information and argument
Reading instructions
Reading as a leisure activity
Understanding an interlocutor
Conversation
Informal discussion (with friends)
Goal-oriented co-operation
Information exchange
Online conversation and discussion
Goal-oriented online transactions and collaboration
Sustained monologue: describing experience
Sustained monologue: giving information
Creative writing
Reports and essays
Facilitating collaborative interaction with peers
Collaborating to construct meaning
Relaying speciﬁc information in speech or sign
Processing text in speech or sign
Relaying speciﬁc information in writing
Expressing a personal response to creative texts
(including literature)
MEDIATION
RECEPTION
PRODUCTION
INTERACTION
B2
B1
A2
A1