Understanding as a member of a live audience
This scale concerns understanding a speaker addressing an audience, for example in a meeting or seminar, at a
conference or lecture, on a guided tour, or at a wedding or other celebration. Understanding the speaker/signer as
a member of an audience is in fact usually easier than “Understanding conversation between other people”, even
though the user/learner is even further away from being a participant in the discourse. This is firstly because the more
structured nature of a monologue means that it is easier to bridge over sections that one does not understand and
pick up the thread again. Secondly, the speaker/signer is more likely to be using a neutral register and projecting well
so as to maximise the ability of the audience to follow. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f following a talk accompanying real artefacts (for example on a guided tour) and visual aids (for example
PowerPoint);
f the degree of accommodation to the audience (speed of delivery, extent to which usage is simplified);
f familiarity of the situation and subject matter;
f following a line of argument, distinguishing main points, etc.
Understanding as a member of a live audience
C2
Can follow specialised lectures and presentations employing colloquialism, regional usage or unfamiliar
terminology.
Can make appropriate inferences when links or implications are not made explicit.
Can get the point of jokes or allusions in a presentation.
C1
Can follow most lectures, discussions and debates with relative ease.
B2
Can follow the essentials of lectures, talks and reports and other forms of academic/professional
presentation which are propositionally and linguistically complex.
Can understand the point of view expressed on topics that are of current interest or that relate to their
specialised field, provided the talk is delivered in standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow complex lines of argument in a clearly articulated lecture, provided the topic is reasonably
familiar.
Can distinguish main themes from asides, provided the lecture or talk is delivered in standard language or
a familiar variety.
Can recognise the point of view expressed and distinguish this from facts being reporting.
B1
Can follow a lecture or talk within their own field, provided the subject matter is familiar and the
presentation straightforward and clearly structured.
Can distinguish between main ideas and supporting details in standard lectures on familiar subjects,
provided these are delivered in clearly articulated standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow in outline straightforward short talks on familiar topics, provided these are delivered in clearly
articulated standard language or a familiar variety.
Can follow a straightforward conference presentation or demonstration with visual support (e.g. slides,
handouts) on a topic or product within their field, understanding explanations given.
Can understand the main points of what is said in a straightforward monologue (e.g. a guided tour),
provided the delivery is clear and relatively slow.
A2
Can follow the general outline of a demonstration or presentation on a familiar or predictable topic, where
the message is expressed slowly and clearly in simple language and there is visual support (e.g. slides,
handouts).
Can follow a very simple, well-structured presentation or demonstration, provided it is illustrated with
slides, concrete examples or diagrams, it is delivered slowly and clearly with repetition, and the topic is
familiar.
Can understand the outline of simple information given in a predictable situation, such as on a guided tour
(e.g. “This is where the President lives”).