Understanding audio (or signed) media and recordings
This scale involves broadcast audio and signed media and recorded materials unaccompanied by video, including
messages, weather forecasts, narrated stories, news bulletins, interviews and documentaries. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale include the following:
f picking out concrete information;
f understanding main points, essential information;
f catching important information;
f identifying speaker mood, attitudes and viewpoints.
Understanding audio (or signed) media and recordings
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can understand a wide range of recorded and broadcast material, including some non-standard usage,
and identify finer points of detail including implicit attitudes and relationships between people.
B2
Can understand recordings in the standard form of the language likely to be encountered in social,
professional or academic life and identify viewpoints and attitudes as well as the information content.
Can understand most documentaries and most other recorded or broadcast material delivered in the
standard form of the language and can identify mood, attitude, etc.
B1
Can understand the information content of the majority of recorded or broadcast material on topics of
personal interest delivered in clear standard language.
Can understand the main points of news bulletins and simpler recorded material about familiar subjects
delivered relatively slowly and clearly.
Can understand the main points and important details in stories and other narratives (e.g. a description of
a holiday), provided the delivery is slow and clear.
A2
Can understand the most important information contained in short commercials concerning goods and
services of interest (e.g. CDs, video games, travel).
Can understand in an interview what people say they do in their free time, what they particularly like doing
and what they do not like doing, provided they speak slowly and clearly.
Can understand and extract the essential information from short, recorded passages dealing with
predictable everyday matters which are delivered slowly and clearly.
Can extract important information from short broadcasts (e.g. the weather forecast, concert
announcements, sports results), provided people talk clearly.
Can understand the important points of a story and manage to follow the plot, provided the story is told
slowly and clearly.
A1
Can pick out concrete information (e.g. places and times) from short recordings on familiar everyday topics,
provided they are delivered very slowly and clearly.
Pre-A1
Can recognise words/signs, names and numbers that they already know in simple, short recordings,
provided these are delivered very slowly and clearly.
3.1.1.2. Audio-visual comprehension
Watching TV, film and video
This scale includes live and recorded video material plus, at higher levels, film. Key concepts operationalised in
the scale include the following:
f following changes of topic and identifying main points;
f identifying details, nuances and implied meaning (C levels);
f delivery: from slow, clear standard usage to the ability to handle slang and idiomatic usage.