1.1. SUMMARY OF CHANGES TO THE ILLUSTRATIVE DESCRIPTORS
Table 2 summarises the changes to the CEFR illustrative descriptors and also the rationale for these changes. A
short description of the development project is given in Appendix 6, with a more complete version available in
the paper by Brian North and Enrica Piccardo: “Developing illustrative descriptors of aspects of mediation for
the CEFR”.19
Table 2 – Summary of changes to the illustrative descriptors
What is
addressed in
this publication
Comments
Pre-A1
Descriptors for this band of proficiency that is halfway to A1, mentioned at the beginning of
CEFR 2001 Section 3.5, are provided for many scales, including for online interaction.
Changes to
descriptors
published
in 2001
A list of substantive changes to existing descriptors appearing in CEFR 2001 Chapter 4 for
communicative language activities and strategies, and in CEFR 2001 Chapter 5 for aspects
of communicative language, is provided in Appendix 7. Various other small changes to
formulations have been made in order to ensure that the descriptors are gender-neutral and
modality-inclusive.
Changes to C2
descriptors
Many of the changes proposed in the list in Appendix 7 concern C2 descriptors included in the
2001 set. Some instances of highly absolute statements have been adjusted to better reflect the
competence of C2 user/learners.
Changes
to A1-C1
descriptors
A few changes are proposed to other descriptors. It was decided not to “update” descriptors
merely because of changes in technology (e.g. references to postcards or public telephones).
The scale for “Phonological control” has been replaced (see below). The main changes
result from making the descriptors modality-inclusive, to make them equally applicable
to sign languages. Changes are also proposed to certain descriptors that refer to linguistic
accommodation (or not) by “native speakers”, because this term has become controversial since
the CEFR was first published.
Plus levels
The description for plus levels (e.g. = B1+, B1.2) has been strengthened. Please see Appendix 1
and CEFR 2001 Sections 3.5 and 3.6 for discussion of the plus levels.
Phonology
The scale for “Phonological control” has been redeveloped, with a focus on “Sound articulation”
and “Prosodic features”.
Mediation
The approach taken to mediation is broader than that presented in the CEFR 2001. In addition
to a focus on activities to mediate a text, scales are provided for mediating concepts and
for mediating communication, giving a total of 19 scales for mediation activities. Mediation
strategies (5 scales) are concerned with strategies employed during the mediation process,
rather than in preparation for it.
Pluricultural
The scale “Building on pluricultural repertoire” describes the use of pluricultural competences
in a communicative situation. Thus, it is skills rather than knowledge or attitudes that are
the focus. The scale shows a high degree of coherence with the existing CEFR 2001 scale
“Sociolinguistic appropriateness”, although it was developed independently.
Plurilingual
The level of each descriptor in the scale “Building on plurilingual repertoire” is the functional
level of the weaker language in the combination. Users may wish to indicate explicitly which
languages are involved.
Specification
of languages
involved
It is recommended that, as part of the adaptation of the descriptors for practical use in a
particular context, the relevant languages should be specified in relation to:
- cross-linguistic mediation (particularly scales for mediating a text);
- plurilingual comprehension;
- building on plurilingual repertoire.
19.	 North B. and Piccardo E (2016), “Developing illustrative descriptors of aspects of mediation for the CEFR”, Education Policy Division,
Council of Europe, Strasbourg, available at https://rm.coe.int/168073ff31.