Reports and essays
This scale covers more formal types of transactional and evaluative writing and signed production. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale include the following:
f content: from familiar subjects of interest and routine factual information to complex academic and pro-
fessional topics, distinguishing one’s own viewpoints from those in the sources;
f types of text: from short reports and posters to complex texts that present a case, or provide critical ap-
preciation of proposals or literary works;
f complexity of discourse: from linking sentences with simple connectors to smoothly flowing expositions
with effective logical structure.
Reports and essays
C2
Can produce clear, smoothly flowing, complex reports, articles or essays which present a case, or give
critical appreciation of proposals or literary works.
Can provide an appropriate and effective logical structure which helps the reader identify significant
points.
Can set out multiple perspectives on complex academic or professional topics, clearly distinguishing their
own ideas and opinions from those in the sources.
C1
Can produce clear, well-structured expositions of complex subjects, underlining the relevant salient issues.
Can expand and support points of view at some length with subsidiary points, reasons and relevant
examples.
Can produce a suitable introduction and conclusion to a longer report, article or dissertation on a
complex academic or professional topic provided the topic is within their field of interest and there are
opportunities for redrafting and revision.
B2
Can produce an essay or report which develops an argument systematically with appropriate highlighting
of significant points and relevant supporting detail.
Can produce a detailed description of a complex process.
Can evaluate different ideas or solutions to a problem.
Can produce an essay or report which develops an argument, giving reasons in support of or against a
particular point of view and explaining the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
Can synthesise information and arguments from a number of sources.
B1
Can produce short, simple essays on topics of interest.
Can produce a text on a topical subject of personal interest, using simple language to list advantages and
disadvantages, and give and justify their opinion.
Can summarise, report and give their opinion about accumulated factual information on familiar routine
and non-routine matters within their field with some confidence.
Can produce very brief reports in a standard conventionalised format, which pass on routine factual
information and state reasons for actions.
Can present a topic in a short report or poster, using photographs and short blocks of text.
A2
Can produce simple texts on familiar subjects of interest, linking sentences with connectors like “and”,
“because” or “then”.
Can give their impressions and opinions about topics of personal interest (e.g. lifestyles and culture,
stories), using basic everyday vocabulary and expressions.
A1
No descriptors available
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
3.2.2. Production strategies
Communication strategies are presented in the CEFR in relation to the classic approach to strategies in interlanguage
communication: planning, execution, monitoring and repair. For production strategies, the execution strategy for
which an illustrative scale is offered is “Compensating”. Before the appearance of the CEFR, this tended to be the
main communication strategy taken into consideration. Monitoring and repair are then combined into one scale.