Sustained monologue: describing experience
A2
Can tell a story or describe something in a simple list of points.
Can describe everyday aspects of their environment, e.g. people, places, a job or study experience.
Can give short, basic descriptions of events and activities.
Can describe plans and arrangements, habits and routines, past activities and personal experiences.
Can use simple descriptive language to make brief statements about and compare objects and
possessions.
Can explain what they like or dislike about something.
Can describe their family, living conditions, educational background, present or most recent job.
Can describe people, places and possessions in simple terms.
Can express what they are good at and not so good at (e.g. sports, games, skills, subjects).
Can briefly describe what they plan to do at the weekend or during the holidays.
A1
Can describe themselves, what they do and where they live.
Can describe simple aspects of their everyday life in a series of simple sentences, using simple words/signs
and basic phrases, provided they can prepare in advance.
Pre-A1
Can describe themselves (e.g. name, age, family), using simple words/signs and formulaic expressions,
provided they can prepare in advance.
Can express how they are feeling using simple adjectives like “happy” or “tired”, accompanied by body
language.
Sustained monologue: giving information
Sustained monologue: giving information is a new scale concerned with explaining information to a recipient
in a long turn. Although the recipient may well interrupt to ask for repetition and clarification, the information
is clearly unidirectional; it is not an exchange. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f type of information: from a simple description of an object, or directions, through straightforward factual
information on a familiar topic, to complex professional or academic procedures;
f degree of precision: from simple descriptions, through explaining the main points with reasonable precision
and communicating detailed information reliably, to making clear distinctions between ideas, concepts
and things that closely resemble one another.
Sustained monologue: giving information
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can communicate clearly detailed distinctions between ideas, concepts and things that closely resemble
one other.
Can give instructions on carrying out a series of complex professional or academic procedures.
B2
Can communicate complex information and advice on the full range of matters related to their
occupational role.
Can communicate detailed information reliably.
Can give a clear, detailed description of how to carry out a procedure.
B1
Can explain the main points in an idea or problem with reasonable precision.
Can describe how to do something, giving detailed instructions.
Can report straightforward factual information on a familiar topic, for example to indicate the nature of a
problem or to give detailed directions, provided they can prepare beforehand.
A2
Can give simple directions on how to get from X to Y, using basic expressions such as “turn right” and “go
straight”, along with sequential connectors such as “first”, “then” and “next”.
A1
Can name an object and indicate its shape and colour while showing it to others using basic words/signs,
phrases and formulaic expressions, provided they can prepare in advance.
Pre-A1
No descriptors available