Overall oral production
Overall oral production
C2
Can produce clear, smoothly flowing, well-structured discourse with an effective logical structure which
helps the recipient to notice and remember significant points.
C1
Can give clear, detailed descriptions and presentations on complex subjects, integrating sub-themes,
developing particular points and rounding off with an appropriate conclusion.
B2
Can give clear, systematically developed descriptions and presentations, with appropriate highlighting of
significant points, and relevant supporting detail.
Can give clear, detailed descriptions and presentations on a wide range of subjects related to their field of
interest, expanding and supporting ideas with subsidiary points and relevant examples.
B1
Can reasonably fluently sustain a straightforward description of one of a variety of subjects within their
field of interest, presenting it as a linear sequence of points.
A2
Can give a simple description or presentation of people, living or working conditions, daily routines. likes/
dislikes, etc. as a short series of simple phrases and sentences linked into a list.
A1
Can produce simple, mainly isolated phrases about people and places.
Pre-A1
Can produce short phrases about themselves, giving basic personal information (e.g. name, address, family,
nationality).
Sustained monologue: describing experience
This scale concerns narrative and description. It has many short descriptors from A1 to B1 reflecting a relatively
direct link between communicative functions and the language used to express them. There is little or no
information about quality of language, for which one needs to consult the scales for communicative language
competences, which are relevant to spoken, signed and written modalities. Key concepts operationalised in the
scale include the following:
f aspects described, from simple everyday information (describe themselves, what they do and where they
live), through classic functions (for example, describe plans and arrangements, habits and routines, past
activities and personal experiences) and a wide range of subjects related to fields of interest, to detailed
descriptions of complex subjects;
f complexity of discourse: from simple words/signs, formulaic expressions and simple sentences or short
paragraphs, through relating as a sequence of points, to integrating sub-themes and developing particular
points in a smoothly flowing description.
Sustained monologue: describing experience
C2
Can give clear, smoothly flowing, elaborate and often memorable descriptions.
C1
Can give clear, detailed descriptions of complex subjects.
Can give elaborate descriptions and narratives, integrating sub-themes, developing particular points and
rounding them off with an appropriate conclusion.
B2
Can give clear, detailed descriptions on a wide range of subjects related to their field of interest.
Can describe the personal significance of events and experiences in detail.
B1
Can clearly express feelings about something experienced and give reasons to explain those feelings.
Can give straightforward descriptions on a variety of familiar subjects within their field of interest.
Can reasonably fluently relate a straightforward narrative or description as a sequence of points.
Can give detailed accounts of experiences, describing feelings and reactions.
Can relate details of unpredictable occurrences, e.g. an accident.
Can relate the plot of a book or film and describe their reactions.
Can describe dreams, hopes and ambitions.
Can describe events, real or imagined.
Can narrate a story.