Introduction  Page 25
What is
addressed in
this publication
Comments
Literature
There are three new scales relevant to creative text and literature:
- reading as a leisure activity (the purely receptive process; descriptors taken from other sets of
CEFR-based descriptors);
- expressing a personal response to creative texts (less intellectual, lower levels);
- analysis and criticism of creative texts (more intellectual, higher levels).
Online
There are two new scales for the following categories:
- online conversation and discussion;
- goal-oriented online transactions and collaboration.
Both these scales concern the multimodal activity typical of web use, including just checking
or exchanging responses, spoken interaction and longer production in live link-ups, using
chat (written spoken language), longer blogging or written contributions to discussion, and
embedding other media.
Other new
descriptor scales
New scales are provided for the following categories that were missing in the 2001 set, with
descriptors taken from other sets of CEFR-based descriptors:
- using telecommunications;
- giving information.
New descriptors
are calibrated to
the CEFR levels
The new descriptor scales have been formally validated and calibrated to the mathematical
scale from the original research that underlies the CEFR levels and descriptor scales.
Sign languages
Descriptors have been rendered modality-inclusive. In addition, 14 scales specifically for
signing competence are included. These were developed in a research project conducted in
Switzerland.
Parallel project
Young learners
Two collations of descriptors for young learners from the European Language Portfolios (ELPs)
are provided: for the 7-10 and 11-15 age groups respectively. At the moment, no young learner
descriptors have been related to descriptors on the new scales, but the relevance for young
learners is indicated.
In addition to Chapter 2 “Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning”, and the extended illustrative descriptors
included in this publication, users may wish to consult the following two fundamental policy documents related
to plurilingual, intercultural and inclusive education:
f Guide for the development and implementation of curricula for plurilingual and intercultural education (Beacco
et al. 2016a), which constitutes an operationalisation and further development of CEFR 2001 Chapter 8 on
language diversification and the curriculum;
f Reference framework of competences for democratic culture (Council of Europe 2018), the sources for which
inspired some of the new descriptors for mediation included in this publication.
Users concerned with school education may also wish to consult the paper “Education, mobility, otherness – The
mediation functions of schools”,20 which helped the conceptualisation of mediation in the descriptor development
project.
20.	 Coste D. and Cavalli M. (2015) “Education, mobility, otherness – The mediation functions of schools”, Language Policy Unit, Council of
Europe, Strasbourg, available at https://rm.coe.int/16807367ee.