Identifying cues and inferring (spoken, signed and written)
Identifying cues and inferring (spoken, signed and written)
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Is skilled at using contextual, grammatical and lexical cues to infer attitude, mood and intentions and
anticipate what will come next.
B2
Can use a variety of strategies to achieve comprehension, including watching out for main points and
checking comprehension by using contextual clues.
B1
Can exploit different types of connectors (numerical, temporal, logical) and the role of key paragraphs in
the overall organisation in order to better understand the argumentation in a text.
Can extrapolate the meaning of a section of a text by taking into account the text as a whole.
Can identify the meaning of unfamiliar words/signs from the context on topics related to their field and
interests.
Can extrapolate the meaning of occasional unknown words/signs from the context and deduce sentence
meaning, provided the topic discussed is familiar.
Can make basic inferences or predictions about text content from headings, titles or headlines.
Can watch or listen to a short narrative and predict what will happen next.
Can follow a line of argumentation or the sequence of events in a story, by focusing on common logical
connectors (e.g. however, because) and temporal connectors (e.g. after that, beforehand).
Can deduce the probable meaning of unknown words/signs in a text by identifying their constituent parts
(e.g. identifying roots, lexical elements, suffixes and prefixes).
A2
Can use an idea of the overall meaning of short texts and utterances on everyday topics of a concrete type
to derive the probable meaning of unknown words/signs from the context.
Can exploit their recognition of known words/signs to deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words/signs in
short expressions used in routine everyday contexts.
Can exploit format, appearance and typographic features in order to identify the type of text: news story,
promotional text, article, textbook, chat or forum, etc.
Can exploit numbers, dates, names, proper nouns, etc. to identify the topic of a text.
Can deduce the meaning and function of unknown formulaic expressions from their position in a text (e.g.
at the beginning or end of a letter).
A1
Can deduce the meaning of an unknown word/sign for a concrete action or object, provided the
surrounding text is very simple, and on a familiar everyday subject.
Can guess the probable meaning of an unknown word/sign that is similar to one in the language they
normally use.
Pre-A1
Can deduce the meaning of a word/sign from an accompanying picture or icon.
3.2. PRODUCTION
Production includes speaking, signing and writing activities. Oral production is a “long turn”, which may involve
a short description or anecdote, or may imply a longer, more formal presentation. Productive activities have an
important function in many academic and professional fields (for example oral presentations, written studies
and reports – that may be transmitted in sign) and particular social value is attached to them. Judgments are
made about the linguistic quality of what has been submitted in writing or in a signed video, and about the