3.1.1. Reception activities
3.1.1.1. Oral comprehension
The expression “oral comprehension” covers comprehension in live, face-to-face communication and its remote and/
or recorded equivalent. It thus includes visuo-gestural and audio-vocal modalities. The aspects of oral comprehension
included here under reception are different kinds of one-way comprehension, excluding “Understanding an
interlocutor” (as a participant in interaction), which is included under interaction. The approach is strongly influenced
by the metaphor of concentric circles as one moves out from a role as participant in an interaction towards a one-
way role of an overhearer or bystander, to being a member of a live audience, to being a member of an audience
at a distance – via media. Scales are provided for “Understanding conversation between other people” (as an
overhearer) and for “Understanding as a member of a live audience”. To these scales particular media are added, with
“Understanding announcements and instructions”, and “Understanding audio (or signed) media and recordings.”
There is also a separate scale for “Watching TV, film and video” included under audio-visual comprehension.
Overall oral comprehension
Overall oral comprehension
C2
Can understand with ease virtually any kind of language, whether live or broadcast, delivered at fast
natural speed.
C1
Can understand enough to follow extended discourse on abstract and complex topics beyond their
own field, though they may need to confirm occasional details, especially if the variety is unfamiliar.
Can recognise a wide range of idiomatic expressions and colloquialisms, appreciating register shifts.
Can follow extended discourse even when it is not clearly structured and when relationships are only
implied and not signalled explicitly.
B2
Can understand standard language or a familiar variety, live or broadcast, on both familiar and
unfamiliar topics normally encountered in personal, social, academic or vocational life. Only extreme
[auditory/visual] background noise, inadequate discourse structure and/or idiomatic usage influence
the ability to understand.
Can understand the main ideas of propositionally and linguistically complex discourse on both concrete
and abstract topics delivered in standard language or a familiar variety, including technical discussions
in their field of specialisation.
Can follow extended discourse and complex lines of argument, provided the topic is reasonably
familiar, and the direction of the argument is signposted by explicit markers.
B1
Can understand straightforward factual information about common everyday or job-related topics,
identifying both general messages and specific details, provided people articulate clearly in a generally
familiar variety.
Can understand the main points made in clear standard language or a familiar variety on familiar
matters regularly encountered at work, school, leisure, etc., including short narratives.
A2
Can understand enough to be able to meet needs of a concrete type, provided people articulate clearly
and slowly.
Can understand phrases and expressions related to areas of most immediate priority (e.g. very basic
personal and family information, shopping, local geography, employment), provided people articulate
clearly and slowly.
A1
Can follow language which is very slow and carefully articulated, with long pauses for them to
assimilate meaning.
Can recognise concrete information (e.g. places and times) on familiar topics encountered in everyday
life, provided it is delivered slowly and clearly.
Pre-A1
Can understand short, very simple questions and statements, provided they are delivered slowly and
clearly and accompanied by visuals or manual gestures to support understanding and repeated if
necessary.
Can recognise everyday, familiar words/signs, provided they are delivered clearly and slowly in a clearly
defined, familiar everyday context.
Can recognise numbers, prices, dates and days of the week, provided they are delivered slowly and
clearly in a defined, familiar everyday context.