Reading for orientation
B1
Can scan longer texts in order to locate desired information, and gather information from different parts of
a text, or from different texts in order to fulfil a specific task.
Can scan through straightforward, factual texts in magazines, brochures or on the web, identify what they
are about and decide whether they contain information that might be of practical use.
Can find and understand relevant information in everyday material, such as letters, brochures and short
official documents.
Can pick out important information about preparation and usage on the labels on foodstuff and medicine.
Can assess whether an article, report or review is on the required topic.
Can understand the important information in simple, clearly drafted adverts in newspapers or magazines,
provided there are not too many abbreviations.
A2
Can find specific information in practical, concrete, predictable texts (e.g. travel guidebooks, recipes),
provided they are produced in simple language.
Can understand the main information in short and simple descriptions of goods in brochures and websites
(e.g. portable digital devices, cameras).
Can find specific, predictable information in simple everyday material such as advertisements,
prospectuses, menus, reference lists and timetables.
Can locate specific information in lists and isolate the information required (e.g. use the Yellow Pages to
find a service or tradesman).
Can understand everyday signs and notices, etc. in public places, such as streets, restaurants, railway
stations; in workplaces, such as directions, instructions, hazard warnings.
A1
Can recognise familiar names, words/signs and very basic phrases on simple notices in the most common
everyday situations.
Can understand store guides (information on which floors departments are on) and directions (e.g. where
to find lifts).
Can understand basic hotel information (e.g. times when meals are served).
Can find and understand simple, important information in advertisements, programmes for special events,
leaflets and brochures (e.g. what is proposed, costs, the date and place of the event, departure times).
Pre-A1
Can understand simple everyday signs such as “Parking”, “Station”, “Dining room”, “No smoking”, etc.
Can find information about places, times and prices on posters, flyers and notices.
Reading for information and argument
Reading for information and argument – detailed reading – involves careful study of a written or signed text
that one has judged to be relevant for a purpose at hand. It is often associated with study and professional life.
Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f types of text, from simple, short, illustrated informational material to complex reports and articles;
f subjects of text, from familiar everyday subjects of personal interest to topics outside their area of interest;
f depth of understanding, from getting an idea of the content to understanding the finer points and
implications.
Reading for information and argument
C2
Can understand the finer points and implications of a complex report or article even outside their area of
specialisation.
C1
Can understand in detail a wide range of lengthy, complex texts likely to be encountered in social,
professional or academic life, identifying finer points of detail including attitudes and implied as well as
stated opinions.