Monitoring and repair
This scale covers both (a) the spontaneous realisation that one has made a slip or run into a problem and (b)
the more conscious and perhaps planned process of going back over what has been said and checking it for
correctness and appropriateness. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f changing tack and using a different tactic – very obviously at A levels, very smoothly at C levels;
f self-correcting slips, errors and “favourite mistakes”;
f the extent to which a communication problem must be evident before repair is undertaken.
Monitoring and repair
C2
Can backtrack and restructure around a difficulty so smoothly that the interlocutor is hardly aware of it.
C1
Can backtrack when they encounter a difficulty and reformulate what they want to say without fully
interrupting the flow of language.
Can self-correct with a high degree of effectiveness.
B2
Can often retrospectively self-correct their occasional “slips” or non-systematic errors and minor flaws in
sentence structure.
Can correct slips and errors that they become conscious of, or that have led to misunderstandings.
Can make a note of their recurring mistakes and consciously monitor for them.
B1
Can correct mix-ups with the marking of time or expressions that lead to misunderstandings, provided the
interlocutor indicates there is a problem.
Can ask for confirmation that a form used is correct.
Can start again using a different tactic when communication breaks down.
A2
No descriptors available
A1
No descriptors available
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
3.3. INTERACTION
Interaction, which involves two or more parties co-constructing discourse, is central in the CEFR scheme of
language use summarised at the start of this document. Interpersonal interaction is considered to be the origin
of language, with interpersonal, collaborative and transactional functions. Production in the form of storytelling
can be considered a further development in oracy and eventually literacy.
Interaction is also fundamental in learning. The CEFR scales for interaction strategies reflect this with scales for
turntaking, co-operating (= collaborative strategies) and asking for clarification. These basic interaction strategies
are as important in collaborative learning as they are in real-world communication. The majority of the scales
for interaction concern oral interaction. When the CEFR was developed, the notion of written interaction did
not meet with universal recognition and was not highly developed as a result. With hindsight, one can see that
written interaction (= writing much as you would speak, in a slowed-down dialogue) has taken an increasingly
significant role over the past 20 years. Rather than further develop that category, however, the new category of
online interaction has been developed.