Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning  Page 35
“Can do” descriptors as competence
The idea of scientifically calibrating “can
do” descriptors to a scale of levels comes
originally from the field of professional
training for nurses. Tests were not very helpful
in assessing a trainee nurse’s competence;
what was needed was a systematic, informed
observation by an expert nurse, guided by short
descriptions of typical nursing competence
at different levels of achievement.
This “can do” approach was transferred to
language teaching and learning in the work
of the Council of Europe in the late 1970s.
This happened through three channels: (a)
needs-based language training for the world
of work; (b) an interest in teacher assessment
based on defined, communicative criteria, and
(c) experimentation with self-assessment using
“can do” descriptors as a way of increasing
learner reflection and motivation. Nowadays “can
do” descriptors are applied to more and more
disciplines in many countries in what is often
referred to as a competence-based approach.
Communicative language strategies are thus seen in
the CEFR as a kind of hinge between communicative
language competences and communicative language
activities and are attached to the latter in CEFR 2001
Section 4.4. The development of the descriptors for
strategic competence was influenced by the model:
plan, execute, monitor and repair. However, as can
be seen from Table 4, descriptor scales were not
developed for all categories. The categories in italics
were also considered at the time of developing the
CEFR descriptors published in 2001, but no descriptors
were produced. For mediation, in the 2014-17 project,
a decision was taken to develop descriptors only for
execution strategies.
Table 4 – Communicative language strategies in the CEFR
Reception
Production
Interaction
Mediation
Planning
Framing
Planning
N/A
Execution
Inferring
Compensating
Turntaking
Co-operating
Linking to previous
knowledge
Adapting language
Breaking down
complicated information
Amplifying a dense text
Streamlining a text
Evaluation
and Repair
Monitoring
Monitoring and
self-correction
Asking for clarification
Communication repair
2.5. MEDIATION
As mentioned in discussing the CEFR descriptive scheme above, mediation was introduced to language teaching
and learning in the CEFR in the move away from the four skills, as one of the four modes of communication,
namely reception, production, interaction and mediation (see Figure 2). Very often when we use a language,
several activities are involved; mediation combines reception, production and interaction. Also, in many cases,
when we use language it is not just to communicate a message, but rather to develop an idea through what
is often called “languaging” (talking the idea through and hence articulating the thoughts) or to facilitate
understanding and communication.
Treatment of mediation in the CEFR 2001 is not limited to cross-linguistic mediation (passing on information in
another language) as can be seen from the following extracts:
f Section 2.1.3: “make communication possible between persons who are unable, for whatever reason, to
communicate with each other directly”;
f Section 4.4.4: “act as an intermediary between interlocutors who are unable to understand each other
directly – normally (but not exclusively) speakers of different languages”;
f Section 4.6.4: “Both input and output texts may be spoken or written and in L1 or L2.” (Note: This does not
say that one is in L1 and one is in L2; it states they could both be in L1 or in L2).