Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning  Page 41
2.8. THE CEFR ILLUSTRATIVE DESCRIPTORS
The illustrative descriptors are presented within descriptor scales. Each descriptor scale provides examples of
typical language use in a particular area that have been calibrated at different levels. Each individual descriptor
has been developed and calibrated separately from the other descriptors on the scale, so that each individual
descriptor provides an independent criterion statement that can be used on its own, without the context of the
scale. In fact, the descriptors are mainly used in that way: independently of the scale that presents them. The
aim of the descriptors is to provide input for curriculum development.
The descriptors are presented in levels for ease of use. Descriptors for the same level from several scales tend to
be exploited in adapted form in checklists of descriptors for curriculum or module aims and for self-assessment
(as in the ELPs). However, the association of a descriptor with a specific level should not be seen as exclusive or
mandatory. The descriptors appear at the first level at which a user/learner is most likely to be able to perform
the task described. This is the level at which the descriptor is most likely to be relevant as a curriculum aim: it
is the level at which it is reasonable to develop the ability to do what is described. That descriptor would be a
challenging, but by no means impossible, aim for user/learners at the level below. Indeed, for some types of
learners, with a particular talent, experience or motivation in the area described, it could well be a fully appropriate
goal. This emphasises the importance of thinking in terms of profiles (see Figures 6 to 10) as well as levels. Users
may find it useful to read CEFR 2001 Section 3.7, “How to read the scales of illustrative descriptors” (p. 36), and
Section 3.8 (p. 37), “How to use the scales of descriptors of language proficiency”.
The scales of illustrative descriptors consist of independent, stand-alone descriptors and are not primarily
intended for assessment. They are not assessment scales in the sense in which the term is generally used in
language assessment. They do not attempt to cover each relevant aspect at every level in the way that scales for
assessing a performance conventionally do. They are illustrative, not just in the sense that they are presented as
non-mandatory examples, but also in the sense that they provide only illustrations of competence in the area
concerned at different levels. They focus on aspects that are new and salient; they do not attempt to describe
everything relevant in a comprehensive manner. They are open-ended and incomplete.
CEFR descriptor research project
The illustrative descriptors published in the CEFR 2001 were based on results from a Swiss National Science
Foundation research project set up to develop and validate descriptors for the CEFR and the ELP and to give a
picture of the development of language proficiency reached at the end of different school years in the Swiss
educational system. The project described in this document, to develop an extended set of illustrative descriptors,
replicated the approach taken in this Swiss project, which took place from 1993 to 1997. The methodology used in
that original project, and described briefly in CEFR 2001 Appendix B, comprised three phases:
Intuitive phase: Detailed analysis of existing descriptor scales and authoring of new descriptors.
Qualitative phase: 32 face-to-face workshops with groups of 4 to 12 teachers, focusing on (a) sorting
descriptors into the categories they purported to describe; (b) evaluating the clarity, accuracy and
relevance of the descriptors; and (c) sorting descriptors into bands of proficiency.
Quantitative phase: Rasch scaling analysis of the way 250 teachers interpreted the difficulty of the
descriptors when each teacher assessed 10 learners, forming a structured sample of two of their classes
at the end of the school year. These evaluations with descriptors took place when the (approximately 80%
secondary school) teachers were awarding grades for the school year.
The illustrative descriptors are one source for the development of standards appropriate to the context concerned;
they are not in themselves offered as standards. They are a basis for reflection, discussion and further action. The
aim is to open new possibilities, not to pre-empt decisions. The CEFR itself makes this point very clearly, stating
that the descriptors are presented as recommendations and are not in any way mandatory.
As a user, you are invited to use the scaling system and associated descriptors critically. The Modern Languages Section
of the Council of Europe will be glad to receive a report of your experience in putting them into use. Please note also
that scales are provided not only for a global proficiency, but for many of the parameters of language proficiency
detailed in Chapters 4 and 5. This makes it possible to specify differentiated profiles for particular learners or groups
of learners (CEFR 2001, Notes for the user: xiii-xiv).
The descriptor scales are thus reference tools. They are not intended to be used as assessment instruments,
though they can be a source for the development of such instruments. These might take the form of a checklist
at one level, or a grid defining several categories at different levels. Users may find it helpful to refer to CEFR
2001 Section 9.2.2, “The criteria for the attainment of a learning objective”.