Overall reading comprehension
Overall reading comprehension
C2
Can understand virtually all types of texts including abstract, structurally complex, or highly colloquial
literary and non-literary writings.
Can understand a wide range of long and complex texts, appreciating subtle distinctions of style and
implicit as well as explicit meaning.
C1
Can understand in detail lengthy, complex texts, whether or not these relate to their own area of speciality,
provided they can reread difficult sections.
Can understand a wide variety of texts including literary writings, newspaper or magazine articles, and
specialised academic or professional publications, provided there are opportunities for rereading and they
have access to reference tools.
B2
Can read with a large degree of independence, adapting style and speed of reading to different texts and
purposes, and using appropriate reference sources selectively. Has a broad active reading vocabulary, but
may experience some difficulty with low-frequency idioms.
B1
Can read straightforward factual texts on subjects related to their field of interest with a satisfactory level
of comprehension.
A2
Can understand short, simple texts on familiar matters of a concrete type which consist of high frequency
everyday or job-related language.
Can understand short, simple texts containing the highest frequency vocabulary, including a proportion of
shared international vocabulary items.
A1
Can understand very short, simple texts a single phrase at a time, picking up familiar names, words and
basic phrases and rereading as required.
Pre-A1
Can recognise familiar words/signs accompanied by pictures, such as a fast-food restaurant menu
illustrated with photos or a picture book using familiar vocabulary.
Reading correspondence
This scale encompasses reading both personal and formal correspondence. Key concepts operationalised in
the scale include the following:
f length and complexity/simplicity of message;
f concreteness of information, whether it follows a routine format;
f the extent to which language is standard, colloquial, idiomatic;
f the extent to which the subject is an everyday one, or if it is related to interests, or specialised.
Reading correspondence
C2
Can understand specialised, formal correspondence on a complex topic.
C1
Can understand any correspondence given the occasional use of a dictionary.
Can understand implicit as well as explicit attitudes, emotions and opinions expressed in e-mails,
discussion forums, vlogs/blogs, etc., provided there are opportunities for rereading and they have access to
reference tools.
Can understand slang, idiomatic expressions and jokes in private correspondence.
B2
Can read correspondence relating to their field of interest and readily grasp the essential meaning.
Can understand what is said in a personal e-mail or posting even where some colloquial language is used.