Understanding as a member of a live audience
A1
Can understand in outline very simple information being explained in a predictable situation like a guided
tour, provided the delivery is very slow and clear and that there are long pauses from time to time.
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
Understanding announcements and instructions
This scale involves a different type of extremely focused comprehension in which the aim is to catch specific
information. The situation is complicated by the fact that the announcement or instructions may well be delivered
by a (possibly faulty) public address system, or called out/signed some considerable distance away. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale include the following:
f understanding directions and detailed instructions;
f catching the main point of announcements;
f degree of clarity, from slow and clear to normal speed with audio and/or visual distortion.
Understanding announcements and instructions
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can extract specific information from poor quality, [audibly and/or visually] distorted public
announcements, e.g. in a station or sports stadium, or on an old recording.
Can understand complex technical information, such as operating instructions or specifications for familiar
products and services.
B2
Can understand announcements and messages on concrete and abstract topics delivered in standard
language or a familiar variety at normal speed.
Can understand detailed instructions well enough to be able to follow them successfully.
B1
Can understand simple technical information, such as operating instructions for everyday equipment.
Can follow detailed directions.
Can understand public announcements at airports, stations and on planes, buses and trains, provided
these are clearly articulated with minimum interference from [auditory/visual] background noise.
A2
Can understand and follow a series of instructions for familiar everyday activities such as sports, cooking,
etc., provided they are delivered slowly and clearly.
Can understand straightforward announcements (e.g. of a cinema programme or sports event, that a train
has been delayed), provided the delivery is slow and clear.
Can catch the main point in short, clear, simple messages and announcements.
Can understand simple directions on how to get from X to Y, by foot or public transport.
Can understand basic instructions on times, dates and numbers, etc., and on routine tasks and assignments
to be carried out.
A1
Can understand instructions addressed carefully and slowly to them and follow short, simple directions.
Can understand when someone tells them slowly and clearly where something is, provided the object is in
the immediate environment.
Can understand figures, prices and times given slowly and clearly in an announcement by loudspeaker, e.g.
at a railway station or in a shop.
Pre-A1
Can understand short, simple instructions for actions such as “Stop”, “Close the door”, etc., provided they are
delivered slowly face-to-face, accompanied by pictures or manual gestures and repeated if necessary.