Although the CEFR 2001 does not develop the concept of mediation to its full potential, it emphasises
the two key notions of co-construction of meaning in interaction and constant movement between the
individual and social level in language learning, mainly through its vision of the user/learner as a social
agent. In addition, an emphasis on the mediator as an intermediary between interlocutors underlines
the social vision of the CEFR. In this way, although it is not stated explicitly in the 2001 text, the CEFR
descriptive scheme de facto gives mediation a key position in the action-oriented approach, similar
to the role that a number of scholars now give it when they discuss the language learning process.
The approach taken to mediation in the 2014-17 project to extend the CEFR illustrative descriptors is thus wider
than considering only cross-linguistic mediation. In addition to cross-linguistic mediation, it also encompasses
mediation related to communication and learning as well as social and cultural mediation. This wider approach
has been taken because of its relevance in increasingly diverse classrooms, in relation to the spread of CLIL
(Content and Language Integrated Learning), and because mediation is increasingly seen as a part of all learning,
but especially of all language learning.
The mediation descriptors are particularly relevant for the classroom in connection with small group, collaborative
tasks. The tasks can be organised in such a way that learners have to share different inputs, explaining their information
and working together in order to achieve a goal. They are even more relevant when this is undertaken in a CLIL context.
2.6. THE CEFR COMMON REFERENCE LEVELS
The CEFR has two axes: a horizontal axis of categories for describing different activities and aspects of competence,
which were outlined above, and a vertical axis representing progress in proficiency in those categories. To
facilitate the organisation of courses and to describe progress, the CEFR presents the six Common Reference
Levels shown in Figure 3. This arrangement provides a roadmap that allows user/learners to engage with relevant
aspects of the descriptive scheme in a progressive way. However, the six levels are not intended to be absolute.
Firstly, they can be grouped into three broad categories: Basic user (A1 and A2), Independent user (B1 and B2)
and Proficient user (C1 and C2). Secondly, the six reference levels, which represent very broad bands of language
proficiency, are very often subdivided.
Figure 3 – CEFR Common Reference Levels
C2
C1
B2
B1
A2
A1
All categories in the humanities and liberal arts are in any case conventional, socially constructed concepts. Like
the colours of the rainbow, language proficiency is actually a continuum. Yet, as with the rainbow, despite the
fuzziness of the boundaries between colours, we tend to see some colours more than others, as in Figure 4. Yet,
to communicate, we simplify and focus on six main colours, as in Figure 5.
Figure 4 – A rainbow
Figure 5 – The conventional six colours