Reading correspondence
B1
Can understand formal correspondence on less familiar subjects well enough to redirect it to someone
else.
Can understand the description of events, feelings and wishes in personal letters well enough to
correspond regularly with a pen friend.
Can understand straightforward personal letters, e-mails or postings giving a relatively detailed account of
events and experiences.
Can understand standard formal correspondence and online postings in their area of professional interest.
A2
Can understand a simple personal letter, e-mail or post in which the person writing is talking about familiar
subjects (such as friends or family) or asking questions on these subjects.
Can understand basic types of standard routine letters and faxes (enquiries, orders, letters of confirmation,
etc.) on familiar topics.
Can understand short, simple personal letters.
Can understand very simple formal e-mails and letters (e.g. confirmation of a booking or online purchase).
A1
Can understand short, simple messages on postcards.
Can understand short, simple messages sent via social media or e-mail (e.g. proposing what to do, when
and where to meet).
Pre-A1
Can understand from a letter, card or e-mail the event to which they are being invited and the information
given about day, time and location.
Can recognise times and places in very simple notes and text messages from friends or colleagues (e.g.
“Back at 4 o’clock” or “In the meeting room”), provided there are no abbreviations.
Reading for orientation
Reading for orientation – search reading – involves “skimming”: reading at speed in order to judge relevance and
“scanning”: searching for specific information. In relation to signed texts, both functions are achieved by putting
the video into “fast forward”. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f the types of text (from notices, leaflets, etc. to articles and books);
f picking out concrete information like times and prices from texts that are visual artefacts, rather than prose
text, with helpful layout;
f identifying important information;
f scanning prose text for relevance;
f speed, mentioned in B2.
Reading for orientation
C2
No descriptors available; see B2
C1
No descriptors available; see B2
B2
Can scan quickly through several sources (articles, reports, websites, books, etc.) in parallel, in both their
own field and in related fields, and can identify the relevance and usefulness of particular sections for the
task at hand.
Can scan quickly through long and complex texts, locating relevant details.
Can quickly identify the content and relevance of news items, articles and reports on a wide range of
professional topics, deciding whether closer study is worthwhile.