Sustained monologue: putting a case (e.g. in a debate)
This scale describes the ability to sustain an argument. The descriptors published in 2001 were bunched at
B2, where this ability is a salient concept. Descriptors have now been added for more levels. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale include the following:
f topics: from what they like or dislike about something, through opinions on subjects relating to everyday
life, to topical issues and complex issues;
f manner of arguing: from making simple, direct comparisons, through expanding and supporting viewpoints
at some length while developing an argument systematically, to taking into account the interlocutor’s
perspective and employing emphasis effectively;
f manner of formulation: from presenting an idea in simple terms to highlighting significant points appro-
priately and formulating points precisely in well-structured language.
Sustained monologue: putting a case (e.g. in a debate)
C2
No descriptors available; see C1
C1
Can argue a case on a complex issue, formulating points precisely and employing emphasis effectively.
Can develop an argument systematically in well-structured language, taking into account the interlocutor’s
perspective, highlighting significant points with supporting examples and concluding appropriately.
B2
Can develop an argument systematically with appropriate highlighting of significant points, and relevant
supporting detail.
Can develop a clear argument, expanding and supporting their points of view at some length with
subsidiary points and relevant examples.
Can construct a chain of reasoned argument.
Can explain a viewpoint on a topical issue giving the advantages and disadvantages of various options.
B1
Can develop an argument well enough to be followed without difficulty most of the time.
Can give simple reasons to justify a viewpoint on a familiar topic.
Can express opinions on subjects relating to everyday life, using simple expressions.
Can briefly give reasons and explanations for opinions, plans and actions.
Can explain whether or not they approve of what someone has done and give reasons to justify this
opinion.
A2
Can explain what they like or dislike about something, why they prefer one thing to another, making
simple, direct comparisons.
Can present their opinion in simple terms, provided interlocutors are patient.
A1
No descriptors available
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
Public announcements
Public announcements are a very specialised way of passing important information to a group of people, perhaps
in a private capacity (for example at a wedding), perhaps while organising an event or outing, or in the manner
of air cabin staff. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f type of content: from predictable, learnt content to announcements on a range of topics;
f intelligibility: from a delivery that recipients will have to concentrate on to follow, to effective use of pro-
sodic cues41 in order to convey finer shades of meaning precisely;
f need for preparation: from very short, rehearsed announcements to spontaneous and almost effortless fluency.
41.	 Prosodic cues are, for example, stress and intonation for spoken languages, and non-manual elements for sign languages.