Key aspects of the CEFR for teaching and learning  Page 29
the different levels, is intended to provide a common metalanguage for the language education profession in
order to facilitate communication, networking, mobility and the recognition of courses taken and examinations
passed. In relation to examinations, the Council of Europe’s Language Policy Division has published a manual
for relating language examinations to the CEFR,23 now accompanied by a toolkit of accompanying material and
a volume of case studies published by Cambridge University Press, together with a manual for language test
development and examining.24 The Council of Europe’s ECML has also produced Relating language examinations
to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR) – Highlights
from the Manual25 and provides capacity building to member states through its RELANG initiative.26
However, it is important to underline once again that the CEFR is a tool to facilitate educational reform projects,
not a standardisation tool. Equally, there is no body monitoring or even co-ordinating its use. The CEFR itself
states right at the very beginning:
One thing should be made clear right away. We have NOT set out to tell practitioners what to do, or how to do it. We
are raising questions, not answering them. It is not the function of the Common European Framework to lay down the
objectives that users should pursue or the methods they should employ. (CEFR 2001, Notes to the User)
2.2. IMPLEMENTING THE ACTION-ORIENTED APPROACH
The CEFR sets out to be comprehensive, in the sense that it is possible to find the main approaches to language
education in it, and neutral, in the sense that it raises questions rather than answering them and does not
prescribe any particular pedagogic approach. There is, for example, no suggestion that one should stop teaching
grammar or literature. There is no “right answer” given to the question of how best to assess a learner’s progress.
Nevertheless, the CEFR takes an innovative stance in seeing learners as language users and social agents, and
thus seeing language as a vehicle for communication rather than as a subject to study. In so doing, it proposes
an analysis of learners’ needs and the use of “can do” descriptors and communicative tasks, on which there is a
whole chapter: CEFR 2001 Chapter 7.
23.	 Council of Europe (2009), “Relating Language Examinations to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages:
Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR) – A Manual”, Language Policy Division, Council of Europe, Strasbourg, available at https://
rm.coe.int/1680667a2d.
24.	 ALTE (2011), “Manual for language test development and examining – For use with the CEFR”, Language Policy Division, Council of
Europe, Strasbourg, available at https://rm.coe.int/1680667a2b.
25.	 Noijons J., Bérešová J., Breton G. et al. (2011), Relating language examinations to the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages: Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR) – Highlights from the Manual, Council of Europe Publishing, Strasbourg, available at:
www.ecml.at/tabid/277/PublicationID/67/Default.aspx.
26.	 Relating language curricula, tests and examinations to the Common European Framework of Reference (RELANG): https://relang.ecml.at/.
The methodological message of the CEFR is that
language learning should be directed towards
enabling learners to act in real-life situations,
expressing themselves and accomplishing tasks of
different natures. Thus, the criterion suggested for
assessment is communicative ability in real life, in
relation to a continuum of ability (Levels A1-C2). This
is the original and fundamental meaning of “criterion”
in the expression “criterion-referenced assessment”.
Descriptors from CEFR 2001 Chapters 4 and 5 provide
a basis for the transparent definition of curriculum
aims and of standards and criteria for assessment,
with Chapter 4 focusing on activities (“the what”) and
Chapter 5 focusing on competences (“the how”). This is
not educationally neutral. It implies that the teaching
and learning process is driven by action, that it is action-
oriented. It also clearly suggests planning backwards
from learners’ real-life communicative needs, with
consequent alignment between curriculum, teaching
and assessment.
A reminder of CEFR 2001 chapters
Chapter 1: The Common European Framework
in its political and educational context
Chapter 2: Approach adopted
Chapter 3: Common Reference Levels
Chapter 4: Language use and the
language user/learner
Chapter 5: The user/learner’s competences
Chapter 6: Language learning and teaching
Chapter 7: Tasks and their role in language teaching
Chapter 8: Linguistic diversification
and the curriculum
Chapter 9: Assessment