Informal discussion (with friends)
C2
Can advise on or discuss sensitive issues without awkwardness, understanding colloquial references and
dealing diplomatically with disagreement and criticism.
C1
Can easily follow and contribute to complex interactions between third parties in group discussion even on
abstract, complex unfamiliar topics.
B2
Can keep up with an animated discussion between proficient users of the target language.
Can express their ideas and opinions with precision, and present and respond to complex lines of
argument convincingly.
Can take an active part in informal discussion in familiar contexts, commenting, putting a point of view
clearly, evaluating alternative proposals and making and responding to hypotheses.
Can with some effort catch much of what is said around them in discussion, but may find it difficult to
participate effectively in discussion with several users of the target language who do not modify their
language in any way.
Can account for and sustain their opinions in discussion by providing relevant explanations, arguments
and comments.
B1
Can follow much of what is said around them on general topics, provided interlocutors avoid very
idiomatic usage and articulate clearly.
Can express their thoughts about abstract or cultural topics such as music or films.
Can explain why something is a problem.
Can give brief comments on the views of others.
Can compare and contrast alternatives, discussing what to do, where to go, who or which to choose, etc.
Can generally follow the main points in an informal discussion with friends provided they articulate clearly
in standard language or a familiar variety.
Can give or seek personal views and opinions in discussing topics of interest.
Can make their opinions and reactions understood as regards solutions to problems or practical questions
of where to go, what to do, or how to organise an event (e.g. an outing).
Can express beliefs, opinions and agreement and disagreement politely.
A2
Can generally identify the topic of discussion around them when it is conducted slowly and clearly.
Can exchange opinions and compare things and people using simple language.
Can discuss what to do in the evening or at the weekend.
Can make and respond to suggestions.
Can agree and disagree with others.
Can discuss everyday practical issues in a simple way when addressed clearly, slowly and directly.
Can discuss what to do, where to go and make arrangements to meet.
Can express opinions in a limited way.
A1
Can exchange likes and dislikes for sports, foods, etc., using a limited repertoire of expressions, when
addressed clearly, slowly and directly.
Pre-A1
No descriptors available
Formal discussion (meetings)
This scale is concerned with more formal discussion, mainly in a professional or academic context. Key concepts
operationalised in the scale are very similar to those in informal discussion, but also include the following:
f type of meeting and topics: from exchanges on practical problems to discussion of abstract, complex,
unfamiliar issues;
f ability to follow the discussion: from needing repetition and clarification to understanding points given
prominence and keeping up with animated debate;
f ability to contribute: from needing to rehearse and get help with formulation to probing, evaluating and
challenging the contributions of others and arguing one’s own position convincingly.