Understanding an interlocutor
C2
Can understand any interlocutor, even on abstract and complex topics of a specialist nature beyond their
own field, given an opportunity to adjust to a less familiar variety.
C1
Can understand an interlocutor in detail on abstract and complex topics of a specialist nature beyond their
own field, though they may need to confirm occasional details, especially if the variety is unfamiliar.
B2
Can understand in detail what is said to them in the standard language or a familiar variety even in a
[audially/visually] noisy environment.
B1
Can follow clearly articulated speech/sign directed at them in everyday conversation, though will
sometimes have to ask for repetition of particular words/signs and phrases.
A2
Can understand enough to manage simple, routine exchanges without undue effort.
Can generally understand clear, standard speech/sign on familiar matters directed at them, provided they
can ask for repetition or reformulation from time to time.
Can understand what is said clearly, slowly and directly to them in simple everyday conversation; can be
made to understand, if the interlocutor can take the trouble.
A1
Can understand everyday expressions aimed at the satisfaction of simple needs of a concrete type,
delivered directly to them clearly and slowly, with repetition, by a sympathetic interlocutor.
Can understand questions and instructions addressed carefully and slowly to them and follow short,
simple directions.
Pre-A1
Can understand simple questions that directly concern them (e.g. name, age and address), if the person is
asking slowly and clearly.
Can understand simple personal information (e.g. name, age, place of residence, origin) when other people
introduce themselves slowly and clearly, directly to them, and can understand questions on this theme
addressed to them, though the questions may need to be repeated.
Can understand a number of familiar words/signs and recognise key information (e.g. numbers, prices,
dates and days of the week), provided the delivery is very slow, with repetition if necessary.
Conversation
This scale concerns interaction with a primarily social function: the establishment and maintenance of personal
relationships. Key concepts operationalised in the scale include the following:
f setting: from short exchanges, through maintaining a conversation and sustaining relationships, to flexible
use for social purposes;
f topics: from personal news, through familiar topics of personal interest, to most general topics;
f language functions: from greetings, etc., through offers, invitations and permission, to degrees of emotion
and allusive, joking usage.
Conversation
C2
Can converse comfortably and appropriately, unhampered by any linguistic limitations in conducting a full
social and personal life.
C1
Can use language flexibly and effectively for social purposes, including emotional, allusive and joking
usage.
B2
Can establish a relationship with interlocutors through sympathetic questioning and expressions of
agreement plus, if appropriate, comments about third parties or shared conditions.
Can indicate reservations and reluctance, state conditions when agreeing to requests or granting
permission, and ask for understanding of their own position.
Can engage in extended conversation on most general topics in a clearly participatory fashion, even in a
[audially/visually] noisy environment.
Can sustain relationships with users of the target language without unintentionally amusing or irritating
them or requiring them to behave other than they would with another proficient language user.
Can convey degrees of emotion and highlight the personal significance of events and experiences.