

<!-- pdf-page:1 -->
Threshold 1990 


<!-- pdf-page:2 -->


<!-- pdf-page:3 -->
Threshold 1990 
Council of Europe 
Conseil de I'Europe * * * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* * * 
J. A. van Ek and]. L. M. Trim 
CAMBRIDGE 
UNIVERSITY PRESS 


<!-- pdf-page:4 -->
PUBLISHED BY THE PRESS SYNDICATE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE 
The Pitt Building, Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 IRP, United Kingdom 
The Edinburgh Building, Cambridge CB2 2RU. United Kingdom 
40 West 20th Street, NewYork, NY 10011-4211, USA 
10 Stamford Road, Oakleigh, Melbourne 3166, Austrailia 
First published as Threshold 1990 by Jk 
van Ek and J.L.M. Trim 
0 Council of Europe 1991 
This revised and corrected edition first published 1998 
0 
Council of Europe 
This book is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception and to the 
provisions of relevant collective licensing agreements, no reproduction 
of any part may take place without the written permission of Cambridge 
University Press and the Council of Europe. 
Printed in the United Kingdom at the University Press, Cambridge 
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library 
Library ofcongress Cataloguing in Publication data appliedfor 
ISBN 0 521 56706 8 paperback 
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS 


<!-- pdf-page:5 -->
V 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
A 
B 
c 
D 
Table of contents 
Preface 
Introduction 
The objective: levels of specificity 
The objective: general characterisation 
The objective: extended characterisation 
The objective: components of the specification 
Language functions 
General notions 
Specific notions 
Verbal exchange patterns 
Dealing with texts: reading and listening 
Writing 
Sociocultural competence 
Compensation strategies 
Learning to learn 
Degree of skill 
APPENDICES 
Pronunciation and intonation 
Grammatical summary 
Word index 
Subject index 
Page 
1 
4 
10 
11 
12 
22 
27 
48 
59 
82 
88 
92 
94 
103 
107 
112 
115 
125 
157 
178 


<!-- pdf-page:6 -->


<!-- pdf-page:7 -->
Preface 
Threshold is the latest, thoroughly revised, extended, corrected and reset 
version of The Threshold Level by Dr. J. A. van Ek, first published by the 
Council of Europe in 1975 as part of a project to investigate the 
feasibility of a unitlcredit system for adult language learning in 
Europe. The Project Group set out to develop conceptual and planning 
instruments to assist teachers and course planners to analyse the needs 
of the learners towards whom they had responsibilities and to set, 
consciously and explicitly, appropriate learning objectives. 
Learning objectives will, in principle, be as diverse as the learners and 
the lives they lead. However, large-scale educational systems have to 
base their provision on learners’ common needs. By far the largest 
single group of language learners everywhere consists of people who 
want to prepare themselves to communicate socially with people from 
other countries, exchanging information and opinions on everyday 
matters in a relatively straightforward way, and to conduct the 
necessary business of everyday living when abroad with a reasonable 
degree of independence. The Threshold Level was the first attempt to set 
out in systematic detail just what such an objective implies in terms of 
the situations the learners might have to deal with and what they 
should be able to do by means of language in those situations - what 
feelings and ideas they would need to express, or ask about, or argue 
about, and in general conduct personal relations in daily life. It then 
made recommendations as to the language needed to express 
functions and notions concerned, whether through the set formulae in 
which every language abounds, or by the freer use of words in 
grammatical constructions. What was revolutionary for language 
teaching, however, was that the apparatus of sentence formation, the 
grammar and lexicon, were not seen as ends in themselves, but as 
means to communicative ends. Communicative effectiveness becomes 
the criterion by which the learners’ success (and that of the teaching 
programme) is to be judged, rather than the error-free performance of 
formal exercises. The effect was to ‘convert language teaching from 
structuredominated scholastic sterility into a vital medium for the 
freer movement of people and ideas’ with an emphasis on the use of 
language in direct person-tu-person encounters. 
Since 1975, The Threshold Level has been used on a large scale by the 
designers of syllabuses of all kinds: for curricular reform, for 
examination development, for textbook writing and course design. 
Functional and notional categorisation has been fully assimilated into 
the established framework of language learning and teaching. The 
selection of situations and topics, with the associated specific notions, 
has stood the test of time reasonably well, as has the framework of 


<!-- pdf-page:8 -->
2 
P R E F A C E 
general notions and functions less closely tied to particular situations. 
Over the years, analogous descriptions have been published for Basque, 
Catalan, Danish, Dutch, Estonian, French, Friulian, Galician, German, 
Italian, Latvian, Lebanese, Lithuanian, Maltese, Norwegian, 
Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish and Welsh. Those for Greek and 
Irish are approaching completion and work has started on Czech and 
Hungarian. It is most likely that others will follow. These versions have 
not been mere translations. In each case the priority objectives have 
necessarily taken account not only of the semantic categories 
obligatorily represented in the grammar of the language concerned, 
but also of the differences in the cultural concept. In addition, the 
researchers concerned have frequently contributed new ideas to the 
development of the basic model. The Threshold Level is not itself a 
syllabus but a statement of objectives. Users have invariably adapted it 
accordingly and have always felt free to use their own judgement, 
adding and subtracting categories and exponents as they have seen fit. 
It was, however, apparent to the Project Group responsible for the 
Council of Europe Modern Languages Projects 4 and 12 that the 
existing model for the specification of objectives did not exhaust the 
objectives which language learners should set themselves. In 1979 it set 
up a working party to consider an overall model for the specification of 
language learning objectives more complex than those set out in the 
threshold level documents, taking into account the development of the 
individual as a communicator, learner, social subject and person. 
Working teams were set up, co-ordinated by the Project Adviser. One, 
co-ordinated by H. Holec, was concerned with the development of the 
learner as a communicator and as a learner. The second, co-ordinated 
by D. Coste, was concerned with the personal and social development 
of the learner. The papers produced were published by the Council of 
Europe in 1984, together with analytical summaries by the c o 
ordinators and a 'consolidated report' by the Project Adviser, as Towards 
a more comprehensive frameworkfor the definition of language learning 
objectives. On the basis of these preliminary studies, J. A. van Ek was 
commissioned to organise the various elements into an overall model 
for the specification of language learning objectives, and to consider 
the nature and educational implications of each of its components. His 
study: Objectivesfor Foreign Language Learning was published by the 
Council of Europe in two volumes: Vol. I Scope (1986) and Vol. I1 Levels 
(1987). In Vol. I, Chapter 6, he presents a Frameworkfor comprehensive 
foreign language learning objectives distinguishing the following 
components: 
communicative ability: 
- linguistic competence 
- sociolinguistic competence 
- discourse competence 


<!-- pdf-page:9 -->
P R E F A C E 
3 
- strategic competence 
- socio-cultural competence 
- social competence 
optimal development of personality: 
- cognitive development 
- affective development 
Following the successful completion of Project 12 in 1987, the Council 
for Cultural Cmperation of the Council of Europe launched a further 
Project: Lunguage learningfor European citizenship. Among its priority 
themes in the area of language learning and teaching methodology 
was ‘revising the original threshold level specification as applied to 
English to take account of developments in the 15 years since it was 
conceived as a first pioneering experiment’. A number of institutions 
concerned with the promotion of English as a foreign language: the 
British Council, the University of Cambridge Local Examinations 
Syndicate and BBC English expressed their readiness to support the 
work of revising and extending both The Threshold Level and Waystage. 
We should like to take this opportunity of thanking them warmly for 
this. Accordingly, the Council of Europe commissioned a thorough 
revision, which was undertaken in 1989-90 and published as Threshold 
Level 1990. This edition is closely based upon that publication, but the 
opportunity has been taken to make corrections and to improve the 
presentation. 
We wish here to aclcnowledge our indebtedness to L. G. Alexander for 
his contributions to the original specification. It will, however, be seen 
that the present work is, echoing van Ek’s Introduction to the 1986 
volume: ‘one of the results of many years of intensive collaboration and 
genuine interaction with colleagues from several European countries 
brought together in the framework of successive modern language 
projects of the Council of Europe. The number of those who in some 
way or other, directly or indirectly, have contributed to our study is so 
large that we can only say to them, collectively, “Thank you all”.’ 
J. A. van Ek 
J. L. M. Trim 
Acknowledgement 
The Council of Europe wishes to acknowledge the important financial 
contribution made to this work by the University of Cambridge Local 
Examinations Syndicate, BBC English and the British Council. 


<!-- pdf-page:10 -->
4 
Introduction 
1 Target Group 
Spread all over the world, there are hundreds of millions of people for 
whom English is the key that may unlock the door of the space 
assigned to them by birth and upbringing. A command of this 
language will enable them to extend their mental horizons beyond 
almost any geographical or cultural limitations, and, if so desired, also 
physically to cross the threshold into the world outside. That, in fact, 
hundreds of millions are prepared to make an effort to this purpose 
has been shown by the success of the BBC’S multi-media course Follow 
Me!, which in the late 1970s and early 1980s actually attracted such 
numbers. 
It is for this target group that Threshold Level 1990 has been developed. 
They will be genuine beginners or swalled ‘false beginners’ (i.e. those 
who have acquired some familiarity with the foreign language but feel 
they need a fresh start). They are interested in acquiring a general basic 
ability in English even though, individually, each of them may have 
their own specific needs and wishes and many of them may eventually 
want to go much further than this basic level. Finally, their motivation 
is assumed to be practical rather than academic. 
2 Criteria 
An objective designed for such numbers as referred to above has to be 
flexible enough to allow of a large variety of concretisations in 
accordance with the specific circumstances of different groups or 
individuals. It has to be suitable for utilisation in the design of courses 
for mass audiences as well as in the development of learning materials 
tailored to satisfy the needs of small groups or individuals. It has to 
provide for contacts with native speakers of English as well as with 
native speakers of other languages who use English as an international 
medium of communication. And, finally, it has to be manageable 
within a reasonable time by at least the large majority of those who are 
prepared to make a genuine effort. 
An objective for a target group as large and varied as the one we have in 
mind is necessarily based on assumptions as to what communicative 
needs the members of this group are likely to have in common. It 
cannot, therefore, directly cater for such needs and interests as are 
shared by only a minority of this group, however large this minority 


<!-- pdf-page:11 -->
I N T R O D U C T I O N 
5 
may be. At the same time, it would fall short of its purpose if it did not 
at least provide a framework in which any expansions required for such 
sub-groups might be harmoniously accommodated. 
3 Adaptability 
By way of exemplification we shall consider, in the present section, the 
relevance of Threshold Level 1990 to the needs of what is likely to be a 
substantial subgroup of the overall target population, namely those 
who will have to use the foreign language particularly for professional 
purposes. As a general objective Threshold Level 1990 does not specifically 
cater for the needs of this sub-group. Yet, the ability to use English for 
professional purposes is, first and foremost, the ability to use English. 
In using English for professional purposes, no less than for any other 
purpose, people will have to be able to ask questions and to provide 
information, to elicit opinions, views, preferences, and to express 
them, to refer to past, present and future events, to express reasons 
why and conditions under which something may come to pass and to 
understand others doing so, etc. Also, they will have to be familiar with 
certain social conventions and common assumptions inherent in 
manners of expression in the English language, and they will need to 
be aware of how cultural differences may be reflected in 
communicative behaviour. And then, of course, they will also need 
experience in coping with the inevitable occurrence of situations 
which overtax their linguistic or sociocultural resources. All these 
elements of communicative ability - and many more - are included in 
Threshold Level 1990. Collectively, they constitute the general basic ability 
which we have attempted to describe and specify in this objective. In 
our view, this ability is required by all those who wish to use English 
with a certain measure of confidence in a range of ‘normal’ 
communication situations, i.e. in situations for which it is never 
possible to predict exactly what one will need to be able to say or write 
and what one will be required to understand. In this respect, then, 
Threshold Level 1990 is also an appropriate objective for those who wish to 
be able to use English particularly for professional purposes. However, 
it has further potential. Through its comprehensive system of 
categorisation and the opensndedness of the various specifications it 
offers virtually unlimited possibilities for such expansions as may serve 
the purposes of particular sub-groups of the target population. Not 
only may the various categories be separately expanded, but several of 
them contain slots for the insertion of further (sets of) elements. Thus, 
for instance, on behalf of those who wish to learn English particularly 
for professional purposes, text types of a professional nature may be 
added to the reading component, the writing component may be 


<!-- pdf-page:12 -->
6 
I N T R O D U C T I O N 
expanded as required, the topic specification may be supplemented 
with further topics of professional interest, and open-ended lists 
within the topics can be filled in accordance with the needs and 
interests of particular learner groups. 
4 Flexibility 
As was also claimed in the previous section, Threshold Level 1990 has a 
high degree of internal flexibility. How this flexibility is to be 
exploited, depends to a large extent on the educational context in 
which the learning of the foreign language takes place and the effects 
that this learning is meant to produce. For the learning of a foreign 
language is an educational experience which may benefit the learners 
in several different ways. If undertaken as part of an overall 
educational programme, foreign language learning may, through the 
contacts it provides with another culture, play an essential role in 
widening the learners’ horizon, in stimulating their awareness of the 
potential validity of different value systems, of different ways of 
organising, categorising and expressing experience, etc. If viewed in 
the perspective of permanent education, a foreign language course 
may equip the learners with skills and insights that will facilitate the 
subsequent expansion of their ability in the foreign language or the 
subsequent learning of one or more other foreign languages. If 
pursued in a social context, foreign language learning may contribute 
to the development of the learners’ understanding of the complexities 
of personal interaction; it may prepare them to function more 
effectively in social contacts, not only in the foreign language but also 
in their native language, etc. 
Many more of the potential benefits of foreign language learning are 
listed in van Ek, Objectivesfor Foreign Language Learning, VoZ. 1: Scope, 
Strasbourg 1986. Which of these learning effects, and how many of 
them, are explicitly or implicitly aimed at in a foreign language course, 
depends on the educational context in which the course is offered 
and/or taken, as well as on the educational views of those who provide 
the course and/or of those who take it. 
5 What is new in Threshold Level 1990 
Threshold Level 1990 is designed to fit into a wide variety of educational 
contexts and to suit a wide variety of learning aims. In this respect it 
corresponds to its predecessor, The Threshold Level in a European unit/credit 
systemfor modern language learning by adults. first published by the 
Council of Europe in 1975. The main difference is that now those 


<!-- pdf-page:13 -->
I N T R O D U C T I O N 
7 
components of communicative ability which particularly allow it to be 
related to a wider educational context are identified and explicitly 
incorporated into the objective. Thus, Threshold Level 1990 includes 
discourse strategies, a sociocultural component, compensation 
strategies, and a ‘learning-tdearn’ component. In addition, it contains 
numerous major and minor improvements in the specification of 
those categories which were already distinguished in the original 
Threshold Level as well as certain adjustments reflecting differences in 
assumptions as to foreign language needs in the 1990s as compared to 
the 1970s. Some of the improvements have been designed to make the 
specification more accessible. They include rearrangements in the 
classification of the language functions, a redesigned grammatical 
summary and the provision of a subject index. Other changes are of a 
more fundamental nature, such as the explicit treatment of selected 
intonation patterns, the addition of two new categories of language 
functions, ‘structuring discourse’ and ‘communication repair’. and the 
introduction of several open-ended items in the list of specific notions. 
Such changes and additions as distinguish Threshold Level 1990 from its 
predecessor result from experiences gained in various applications of 
the original version and from the further development of insights into 
the nature of communicative ability and implications of this for 
educational practice. Much of this we owe to the rich literature bearing 
on ‘communicative language learning and teaching’ that has been 
produced in the last 15 years or so. As authors of a new threshold-level 
version we are particularly indebted to all those who, since the original 
version for English came out, have undertaken the development of 
parallel versions for other European languages. Based on the same 
model, each of these versions bears witness to the application of fresh 
insights to the specification of communicative objectives. 
6 Learning load 
Threshold Level 1990 has more components than the old one and in some 
cases - particularly ‘reading’ and ‘listening’ - it requires more of the 
learners than its predecessor did. At first sight, then, it might seem as if 
it represents a heavier learning load. It is our assumption, however. 
that in practice this will not appear to be the case. The new 
components are largely concerned with the acquisition of strategies 
and the development of insights and awareness. Their incorporation 
will have a qualitative rather than a quantitative effect. It does not 
necessarily increase the number of learning items, but it will affect the 
presentation and practice of these items. It will involve, for instance, 
the selection of texts not only for (pragma-)linguistic relevance but also 
for sociocultural relevance or for relevance with regard to ‘coping 
strategies’. It will also mean that learning tasks will have to be made 


<!-- pdf-page:14 -->
a 
I N T R O D U C T I O N 
transparent enough for the learner to understand how the 
performance of these tasks may contribute to the achievement of his or 
her aims. The promotion of the development of various types of insight 
and awareness will require the introduction of teaching/learning 
procedures which are not yet commonly found in language courses. 
One such procedure is described in the recently developed ‘Stage 3 
level’ brochure of the International Certificate Conference.’ It concerns 
the development of sociolinguistic awareness and appropriate 
strategies and consists of three steps: 
exposure to a variety of situations in which such features as 
participant roles, setting, communicative goal, etc., significantly 
influence the choice of language-forms; 
stimulating awareness of this influence through observation, 
reflection, discussion; 
involving the learner in similar situations for active practice. 
The introduction of such a procedure into a language course, we 
assume, will make learning more effective rather than more 
demanding. 
No more do higher demands with regard to ‘reading’ and ‘listening’ 
necessarily increase the actual overall learning load. On the contrary: it 
is increasingly recognised that frequent exposure to texts - or the 
intensive practice of ‘receptive skills’ - will contribute substantially to 
the efficient development of productive ability as well. In fact, what we 
propose in Threshold Level 1990 is much more in agreement with current 
educational practice than the more modest requirements of the 
original Threshold Level. 
The increased flexibility of Threshold Level 1990 makes an assessment of 
the learning load in terms of ‘an average number of learning hours’ 
even more difficult than it used to be. This is particularly due to the 
inclusion of a fairly large number of open-ended items in the list of 
topic-related specific notions and to the comparatively low level of 
specificity in the description of such ‘new’ components as 
sociocultural competence, compensation strategies and learning-to- 
learn. In these cases various concretisations are possible in accordance 
with the needs and interests of individual learners or groups of 
learners. The nature of these concretisations may very well affect the 
weight of the overall learning load and consequently the number of 
hours required to master it. If pressed to give a general indication, 
1 Foreign Languages in Adult and Continuing Education; Specificationsfor Stage 3 Level ofthe 
International CertiJcate Conference Language Certificate System: English, third draft, Deutscher 
Volkshochschul-Verband e.V., Bonn-Frankfurt 1987. 


<!-- pdf-page:15 -->
I N T R O D U C T I O N 
9 
nevertheless, we can only say, at this stage, that we assume the learning 
load for Threshold Level 1990 to be similar to that for its predecessor and 
that there is some evidence that, with adequate guidance, absolute 
beginners need an average of 375 learning hours - including 
independent work - to reach the older objectives. 
7 Waystage 1990 
The estimated learning load for Threshold Level 1990 may appear to be 
very formidable indeed, particularly to learners with only little 
educational experience. Yet, it is our aim to encourage people to learn a 
foreign language rather than to deter them from doing so. Also, we 
would not wish to maintain that the achievement of a lower level of 
communicative ability than Threshold Level 1990 could not be very much 
worthwhile to learners. We therefore provide, in a separate 
publication, a less demanding objective under the name of Waystage 
1990. Waystage 1990 has been derived from Threshold Level 1990, is based 
on the same model and contains the same components. It is a coherent 
objective in its own right, offering the learners a level of ability that 
may serve many of their language purposes without, however, enabling 
them to operate in the foreign language with the same measure of 
freedom as Threshold Level 1990 is meant to provide. The learning load of 
Waystage 1990 is estimated to be about half of that required for Threshold 
Level 1990. For beginning learners who are unable or unwilling to 
commit themselves right from the start to the expenditure of time and 
energy required for the higher objective, Waystage 1990 may be an 
acceptable alternative. And it is not unreasonable to expect that many 
of those who have first reached the lower objective may be encouraged 
by the experience of successful learning to undertake the further 
learning effort that will take them to Threshold Level 1990. 


<!-- pdf-page:16 -->
10 
1 The objective: levels of 
specifilcity 
The objective will be formulated in three stages, or at three levels of 
specificity: 
1 General characterisation 
2 Extended characterisation 
3 Specification 
The general characterisation is meant as an overall description for rapid 
orientation. 
The extended characterisation is a detailed description for all potentially 
interested parties, including the learners themselves. 
The specification is a fully detailed description meant for course 
designers, curriculum planners, test constructors, etc. 


<!-- pdf-page:17 -->
11 
2 The objective: general 
characterisation 
As temporary visitors to, or temporary residents in, a country where 
the foreign language is used for general communication purposes, 
when dealing with foreign visitors or temporary residents in their 
own country, using English as a common means of communication, 
in contact with native or with non-native speakers of the foreign 
language in another foreign country, 
when encountering written or spoken texts in the foreign language, 
the learners will be able to use the foreign language in such a way as to 
cope with the (principally linguistic) requirements of those situations 
they are most likely to find themselves in, particularly: 
situations, including practical transactions in everyday life, 
requiring a largely predictable language use; 
situations involving personal interaction. enabling the learners to 
establish and to maintain social contacts, including those made in 
business contacts; 
understanding of the gist and/or relevant details of written or 
spoken texts. 
situations involving indirect communication, requiring the 


<!-- pdf-page:18 -->
12 
3 
1 
1.1 
1.1.1 
1.1.2 
1.1.3 
1.1.4 
The objective: extended 
characterisation 
Learners will be able to cope with transactional situations of 
everyday life requiring a largely predictable use of language. 
Contacts with officials 
In all contacts with officials learners should be able to ask for 
repetition, clarification and explanation, etc. of any information, 
questions or documents not understood, and should be able to ask for 
the services of an interpreter and/or legal adviser in case of serious 
difficulty (cf. Chapter 12). 
Immigration 
Learners should be able to understand and complete necessary 
documentation. 
Learners should be able to understand and answer questions 
concerning: 
personal identification (cf. Chapter 7,l.l-1.12) 
the duration and purpose of their visit 
Customs officers 
Learners should be able to understand and complete necessary 
documentation. 
Learners should be able to understand and answer necessary questions 
concerning: 
whether they have dutiable items to declare 
the contents of their luggage and the value of items 
where they have come from and where they have acquired items of 
whether items are for personal use or as gifts or for commercial use 
Security officers 
Learners should be able to understand and answer questions covering: 
the contents of their hand-baggage 
whether their baggage contains specified items (e.g. electronic 
Police, traffic wardens, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
. understand and answer questions concerning: 
property 
equipment, real or toy weapons, etc.) 


<!-- pdf-page:19 -->
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
13 
1.2 
1.2.1 
1.2.2 
- personal identification 
- details of any vehicle they drive 
- details of any property lost or stolen 
- their recent actions 
- their intentions and reasons for acting 
minor infringements of regulations 
regulations (parking, public access to buildings, etc.) 
apologise and ask for understanding of their position in case of 
ask questions and understand the answers given regarding 
(See also 1.11 ‘Finding the way’.) 
summon police assistance in the case of emergency (e.g. an accident, 
Arrangements for accommodation 
(See Specific Notions 2.1-6.) 
Accommodation for visitors 
Learners should be able to: 
book accommodation by letter or telephone 
enquire about the nature and availability of accommodation in 
travel agents, or on arrival at a hotel, guest house, camp site, etc. 
complete registration forms 
complain and secure rectification of poor service, malfunctioning 
complete departure procedures, query bills, etc. 
Accommodation for temporary residents 
Learners should be able to: 
enquire, in writing or speech, about accommodation to rent, e.g. 
assault, robbery) 
equipment, etc. 
- the number, type and size of rooms 
- the cost (per week, month or year) and terms of letting 
- the charges, services and amenities provided (e.g. local taxes, gas, 
- the arrangements for repairs and maintenance 
make and confirm inventories of contents and their condition 
make arrangements for and supervise household removal 
make arrangements for services, repairs and maintenance as 
make oral and written complaints to landlord 
water, electricity, etc., furniture and household equipment) 
required 


<!-- pdf-page:20 -->
14 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
1.3 
Arrangements for meals 
Learners should be able to: 
read and understand advertisements of restaurants, menus, etc. 
discuss the relative merits of accommodation, food, prices, waiting 
ask for a (particular) table 
order food and drink 
ask and understand answers to questions on the nature and 
preparation of dishes 
ask for bill, enquire whether service and tax are included 
query and complain of slow service, poor food, overcharging, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
read advertisements in newspapers, magazines, etc. for shops and 
read for gist simple explanatory documentation on the nature, use 
read signposting in supermarkets, departmental stores, etc. 
ask whether goods are available and where they are to be found 
discuss the nature and relative merits of particular choices of goods 
negotiate prices and understand conditions of sale 
make payments and if necessary query prices, addition of bills, etc. 
return faulty, inappropriate or unwanted goods and negotiate 
time, etc. 
1.4 
Shopping: buying consumer goods 
consumer goods 
and conditions of sale of goods 
replacement, refund, etc. 
1.5 
Using public transport 
Learners should be able to: 
read publicised information (e.g. timetables, types and conditions of 
enquire as to cost, times, routes ofjourneys 
discuss relative merits of different means of transport and 
order, query and pay for tickets (e.g. destination, class of travel, 
enquire as to location of gates/bays/platforms/quays, 
etc. of planes, 
sale of tickets) 
companies (e.g. duration, cost, conditions of travel) 
single or return, route, dates), reserve seats, etc. 
buses, trains, ships, etc. 


<!-- pdf-page:21 -->
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
15 
register luggage for despatch, use left luggage facilities, report loss of 
(for temporary residents) 
enquire about the existence of special rates, etc. and their terms and 
or damage to luggage and property 
conditions 
1.6 
Using private transport (car) 
Leaners should be able to: 
read, query and complete documentation for car hire 
read mandatory and advisory official road signs 
obtain petrol, oil, water, air and services at service stations 
report and secure repair of mechanical faults and breakdowns 
exchange necessary car and insurance details in case of accident 
(See also 1.1.4, Contacts with police, traffic warden, etc. and 1.11, 
Finding the way.) 
Learners should be able to: 
make personal and telephone enquiries 
Visiting public places (museums, theatres, stadiums, discos, 
etc.) 
Learners should be able to: 
read publicised guides to tourist attractions, (newspaper 
1.7 
Using information services 
1.8 
entertainment guides, brochures of particular institutions, posters, 
handbills, etc.) 
times, position and nature of seats 
enquire about opening times, prices of admission, performance 
book tickets in advance, or purchase at time of admission 
enquire about facilities and amenities (toilets, refreshments, 
programmes, etc.) 
1.9 
Using public services 
1.9.1 Post office 
Learners should be able to: 
read simple published regulations, counter signs, etc. for specific 
enquire about postage rates, etc. (e.g. first and second class, letters, 
information 
postcards, destination categories, registered and express post, 
parcels, telegrams and fax facilities) 


<!-- pdf-page:22 -->
16 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
purchase stamps, postal and money orders 
complete customs declarations, registration forms, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
read instructions on use of telephone 
consult telephone directories (including yellow pages) 
use telephone directory enquiries 
(See also Language Functions 5.21-5.26.) 
Learners should be able to: 
read public notices (especially service tills, currency regulations and 
enquire about exchange rates for notes/travellers’ cheques 
enquire about use of cheques, credit cards, etc. 
(for temporary residents) 
enquire about, set up and use bank accounts 
Learners should be able to: 
read notices (e.g. consultation hours, specialisms, signposting of 
ask for hospital or general practitioner appointment (by telephone) 
explain nature of complaint and answer questions on place and 
understand instructions for treatment at the time and subsequently 
obtain medication from pharmacist 
Educational services (for temporary residents) 
learners should be able to: 
read brochures (e.g. ofARELS, British Council and particular 
1.9.2 Telephone 
1.9.3 
Bank 
exchange rates) 
1.9.4 Medical services 
hospital departments, instructions to patients) 
nature of ache or pain and other symptoms 
1.10 
1.10.1 As students: 
teaching institutions and language schools) and follow admission 
procedures 
understand and use target language as medium of instruction and 
as language of social interaction in English language classes and 
among learners during breaks, at mealtimes, etc. 
report and discuss problems relating to learning, teaching, study 
facilities, social activities, accommodation, canteen meals, etc. 


<!-- pdf-page:23 -->
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
17 
discuss and enter for examinations 
read examination regulations, rubrics and questions 
learners should be able to: 
enquire about arrangementsloptions for the publiclprivate 
1.10.2 As parents: 
education of their children (e.g. types of school, entry requirements, 
cost, dates of terms, equipment required) 
make day-today arrangements for school attendance 
read simple notes and reports on children’s progress 
attend parent/teacher meetings to discuss children’s progress 
Learners should be able to: 
read maps (road maps, train, tube and bus networks, and other 
direction signs and instructions) 
enquire from officials, service station staff or members of the public 
how to get to certain destinations, where a particular road or railway 
line leads to, the destination of a bus or train, etc. 
1.11 Finding the way 
give similar information to others 
1.12 Communicating at work 
1.12.1 As temporary residents learners should be able to: 
seek work permits, etc. as required 
enquire (e.g. from employment agencies) about the nature, 
availability and conditions of employment (e.g. job description, pay, 
hours of work, free time and holidays, length of notice) 
read employment advertisements 
write letters of application and attend interviews giving written or 
spoken information about own personal data, qualifications and 
experience and answer questions about them 
understand and follow joining procedures 
understand and ask questions concerning the tasks to be performed 
understand safety and security regulations and instructions 
report an accident and make an insurance claim 
make use of welfare facilities 
communicate appropriately with superiors, colleagues and 
subordinates 
on starting work 


<!-- pdf-page:24 -->
i a 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
participate in the social life of the enterprise or institution (e.g. 
1.12.2 As a member of the host community, a learner should be able to assist 
an English-speaking (native or non-native) person with the tasks listed 
above. 
(See Language functions, socialising.) 
A learner should be able: 
canteen, sports and social clubs, etc.) 
1.13 Private hospitality 
1.13.1 as host, to: 
issue an invitation, written or spoken 
greet and introduce guests 
explain about features of domestic arrangements 
follow social routines and exercise socialising functions 
exchange information and opinions on personal and social themes 
receive or exchange souvenirs or small gifts 
say goodbye to guests and react appropriately to expressions of 
appreciation 
1.13.2 as guest, to: 
reply appropriately to accept or decline spoken and written 
exchange greetings with host and other guests, known or newly met, 
follow social routines and exercise socialising functions 
exchange information and opinions on personal and social themes 
offer flowers or small gifts 
express appreciation of hospitality given 
take leave, making or confirming travel arrangements as required 
In the sphere of soaal interaction the learner has the ability: 
to exchange information 
to express, and to understand the expression of, opinions, views, 
to agree upon and carry out ccloperative actions 
The above in relation to topics of personal and of general interest, 
particularly: 
invitations 
whether introduced or not 
2 
attitudes, emotions, wishes 
personal life and circumstances 


<!-- pdf-page:25 -->
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
19 
living conditions 
trade, profession, occupation 
education 
freetime activities 
travelling, regions, places, sights 
consumer goods, shopping, prices 
eating and drinking 
social relations 
politics, current events 
weather 
languages, language learning, language problems 
For details, see Chapter 7, Specific Notions. 
3 
The learner can understand the gist and/or relevant details of 
written and of spoken texts which have the following 
characteristics: 
they are relevant to the situations listed under (1) above or to the 
they have a clear structure, both conceptually and formally 
the information contained in them is exclusively or mainly offered 
their understanding requires no or only little familiarity with a 
they are produced in an easily accessible form: 
topics under (2) above 
explicitly 
foreign culture, other than ‘general European culture’ 
- written texts are clearly printed and, when appropriate, provided 
with titles, paragraphing, illustrations etc. 
- spoken texts are produced with minimal acoustic distortion, in 
the standard pronunciation or a close approximation of this, and 
at a speech rate which is in the lower range of what is normal 
In connection with (1) and (2) above the learner is familiar with 
relevant social conventions, e.g. 
non-linguistic: physical contact (hand-shaking, kissing, touching, etc.), 
significant roles of gesture and mime, etc. 
linguistic: verbal ways of drawing attention, ways of addressing, 
choosing degree of formality/informality, turn taking, contact 
ending, etc., in accordance with normal conventions of politeness. 
(See Chapter 11.) 
4a 


<!-- pdf-page:26 -->
20 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
b 
In connection with (2) the learner is, moreover, familiar with relevant 
social rituals, e.g. 
visiting rituals (appropriate time for arriving, present giving, 
eating and drinking rituals 
acceptance and refusal rituals 
In connection with (3) above the learner can use appropriate 
interpretation strategies both as a reader and as a listener, e.g. 
distinguishing main points and secondary points 
distinguishing fact from comment 
identifying relevant information. This may involve determining the 
audience for whom the text was produced and the attitudes and 
communicative intentions of the author, as well as drawing 
inferences from what is explicit in the text 
making use of clues such as titles, illustrations, typographical 
devices (e.g. bolding, italicising, underlining, paragraphing), and, in 
oral texts, such discourse markers as the placing of emphasis, 
structurally relevant pauses, tone of voice, etc. 
acceptable conversation topics, etc.) 
5 
6 
The learner has some familiantywith characteristic features of the 
foreign culture (i.e. the culture of the major, or one of the major, 
countries where the language is used as native language), 
particularly those affecting: 
everyday life 
living conditions 
interpersonal relations 
major values and attitudes 
The learner can use techniques and strategies for coping with 
demands of situations which go beyond hisher non-linguistic and/or 
linguistic repertoire, e.g. 
engaging a communication partner’s ccmperation in filling a gap in 
appealing to tolerance of a foreigner’s ‘awkwardness’, etc. 
strategies for ‘getting one’s meaning across’ in spite of inadequate 
strategies for deriving meaning from texts in spite of the occurrence 
strategies for enlisting the communication partner’s help in solving 
7 
one’s know-how 
command of the linguistic code 
of unknown elements 
communication problems 


<!-- pdf-page:27 -->
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
21 
using appropriate aids such as dictionaries, word lists, grammars, 
and other reference materials. 


<!-- pdf-page:28 -->
22 
4 The objective: components of 
the specification 
A communicative approach aims to enable the learners to use a foreign 
language for their own purposes. What these purposes are, depends on 
the personality, the circumstances, the needs and interests of the 
learners themselves. They are never fully predictable, but, starting 
from a particular target group, however heterogeneous it may be, we 
can make an attempt to identify those things that all of them are at 
least very likely to need or wish to be able to do in the foreign language. 
In order to do this in any useful way we have to try and determine in 
what situations they are most likely to use the foreign language, what 
roles they will play in these situations, and what matters they are most 
likely to have to be able to deal with in the foreign language. 
Determining all this - especially if we want to arrive at a fairly detailed 
description - is. in a way, a matter of guesswork. However, we can make 
at least better educated guesses if we make use of our collective 
experience, our knowledge of the world, and of whatever amount of 
consensus would appear to have been - explicitly or implicitly - 
achieved. In fact, the information on this that is available now is by no 
means negligible. It may be found in numerous studies that have 
appeared since the Threshold Level was originally published, and it is to 
be found in the choices made in those course materials with a 
communicative orientation that have been produced in the last 20 
years or so. By and large, the assumptions made in the original 
l'hreshold Level would seem to have been widely upheld, so that the basis 
for the present specification is a more solid one than for the earlier 
one. Yet, it should be constantly borne in mind that these assumptions 
are made with regard to what the members of a very large target group 
are supposed to have in common and that the undoubtedly 
considerable individual differences among these members are 
deliberately left out of account. This is just another way of saying that 
the Threshold Level is a general objective only, and, moreover, one that is 
never to be regarded as fixed and closed but as something to be used 
flexibly and creatively. 
In the preceding general characterisation and particularly in the extended 
characterisation we described the Threshold Level objective. The question is 
now how this may be most usefully specified, how it may be broken 
down into a coherent set of elements that may serve the purposes of 
those for whom the specification is meant. 
Our starting-point is the situations in which the learners are most 
likely to find themselves. Each situation will make its own demands on 
their communicative resources. At the same time, these demands have 


<!-- pdf-page:29 -->
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
23 
a lot in common, something which requires what we may regard as 
general communicative ability. An economical description, then, of 
what the learners need to be able to do, will specify the components of 
this general communicative ability plus, for each situation envisaged, 
the specific ability required to function adequately in it. The general 
ability, the ability required in most communication situations, will be 
the subject of by far the greater part of our specification. In fact, there 
will be only one component that is directly concerned with specific 
situation-related ability, and - as is to be expected - this will largely be 
a matter of concrete vocabulary items. 
A communicative approach does not consider knowledge of the 
language - however desirable this may be - as an end in itself. Its goal is 
the ability to use language, to do with language the kind of things one 
needs or wants to do with it. 
The starting-point of the specification of our objective, then, is a list of 
the kind of things people may do by means of language. These are 
things such as describing, enquiring, denying, thanking, apologising, 
expressing feelings, etc. We refer to these things as ‘language 
functions’ and we say that in saying, for instance, ‘I’m sorry’ people 
fulfil the language function of apologising or of expressing regret. The 
first component of our specification is a list of those language 
functions that the members of our target group are most likely to need 
to be able to fulfil. 
Language functions are not fulfilled in a void, with regard to nothing. 
If we say ‘I’m sorry’, we apologise for or express regret about something, 
even though we may not mention this explicitly because it is 
sufficiently clear from the context in which the utterance is produced. 
If, however, we were to say ‘I’m sowy for being late’, we explicitly refer to a 
particular concept, the concept of ‘lateness’. The concepts that we may 
refer to while fulfilling language functions will be indicated here as 
‘notions’. Among the notions we distinguish ‘general notions’ and 
‘specific notions’. General notions are such as may be expressed in 
almost any situation and specific notions are those which are likely to 
be expressed typically in particular situations only. In most situations 
the need may arise to refer to time, to place, to quantity or quality, to 
express relations between entities, etc. The notions involved in this will 
be listed in our second component as ‘general notions’. A notion such 
as ‘timetable’, on the other hand, is likely to be expressed only in a 
situation of people dealing with ‘travelling’; the notion of ‘potatoes’ is 
most likely to be expressed in connection with ‘eating’ or with 
‘agriculture’. Such situation-related or topic-related notions will be 
listed in our third component, ‘specific notions’. In this third 
component we shall also give general indications as to what people will 
be supposed to be able to do in each of the situations or with regard to 
each topic included here. Such indications facilitate and justify the 
selection of those notions which may be thought particularly relevant 
to the members of the target group. 


<!-- pdf-page:30 -->
24 
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
Before passing on to other components of our specification we wish to 
point out that the above distinctions between functions and notions on 
the one hand and between general notions and specific notions on the 
other cannot always be made with full consistency. Thus, it may be 
argued that certain language functions may just as well be interpreted 
as expressing notions and that for certain notions the choice between 
‘general’ and ‘specific’ seems to be an arbitrary one. There is no 
denying that our system of classification has its shortcomings. Yet, it 
does ensure the fullest possible coverage, and it has fully proved its 
value for practical purposes. 
The breakdown of language use in terms of the fulfilment of certain 
functions with regard to certain notions may obscure the fact that in 
actual communication situations these functions are rarely fulfilled in 
isolation. Usually a communication situation will require the 
fulfilment of general functions in various combinations and sequences. 
In general, the predictability of these combinations and sequences is 
highly limited. Yet, there are certain features and patterns that occur 
more or less regularly. and some familiarity with them is indispensable 
for effective communication. A number of these features are included 
in our list of language functions under ‘structuring discourse’, and a 
more general treatment particularly with regard to dialogues will be 
given in the chapter on ‘verbal exchange patterns’ (Chapter 8). 
One of the differences between the present objective and the original 
Threshold Level is the stronger emphasis on the ability to deal with 
printed texts and with spoken texts produced by media. This ability is 
listed as item 3 in the ‘extended characterisation’. Because of this 
stronger emphasis we include in our specification a separate chapter 
on ‘dealing with texts’ (Chapter 9). 
We also include a short chapter on writing (Chapter 10). because it may 
be convenient to have a survey of what may be expected of learners at 
this level, rather than having to collect this from several different parts 
of the specification. 
The fulfilment of language hnctions and their sequencing will, to a 
certain extent, be governed by the social conventions which are 
observed in a particular language community. These conventions are 
part of the sociocultural context in which the language concerned is 
used as the medium of communication. This context may have a strong 
influence on what people express and how they express it. Even at 
Threshold Level some familiarity with this context, or at least awareness 
of its potential significance, is essential to effective communication. It 
will be dealt with in a separate chapter of our specification, called 
‘sociocultural competence’ (Chapter 11). 
In many real-life communication situations the learners’ resources, in 
terms of knowledge, skills and insights, will fall short of the 


<!-- pdf-page:31 -->
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
25 
requirements of these situations. Successful communication will then 
depend on the learners’ skill in coping with these requirements in spite 
of the inadequacy of their resources. We shall, therefore, include a 
chapter on ‘compensation strategies’ in our specification (Chapter 12). 
Finally, we shall pay attention to ways in which the experience of 
learning a foreign language may be exploited in order to benefit the 
learners as learners. Strictly speaking, this falls outside the scope of the 
objective as described in the ‘characterisations’. Yet, it may be assumed 
that learners who have some awareness of ‘how to learn’ are likely to 
‘pass the threshold’ more readily than those who have none. We do not 
consider it out of place. therefore, to add a ‘learning-telearn’ 
component to our specification (Chapter 13). 
In the specification of the Threshold Level actual language forms 
(grammatical structures, words, etc.) play only a secondary role. What 
is required at Threshold Level is that learners should be able to do certain 
things in the foreign language, and how they do these things is not our 
prime concern. With regard to this we confine ourselves to an 
indication - in the chapter ‘degree of skill’ (Chapter 14) - of certain 
quality criteria that are relevant to effective communication at this 
level. Apart from this, the only thing which we feel it is justified to do 
in this respect is to give some guidance as to how learners might be 
able to do all the things specified not only effectively but also as 
economically as possible in terms of the learning load involved. For this 
reason we add recommended ‘exponents’ (linguistic realisations) to the 
various language functions and to the notions. These exponents are 
not to be mistaken, however, for a prescribed grammar + vocabulary. 
They may provide useful guidance, they give a concrete indication of 
the degree of formaliQ/informaliQ envisaged, and they may be used as 
checklists, but there their role ends. The same remarks apply to the 
word index and the grammatical summary added to the specification 
as appendices. 
As the exponents will show, the degree of formality/informaliQ 
recommended for Threshold Level learners is fairly neutral. With their 
limited familiarity with the ways language forms are used in the 
sociocultural context concerned, learners are well advised, we feel, to 
avoid extremes both in the direction of formality and in that of 
informality. If, nevertheless, there should be a need for more marked 
registers, the appropriate exponents can always be added. In the lists 
provided exponents are marked 0. These are exponents that, we think, 
the learners are very likely to be confronted with by communication 
partners but that they will hardly be required to produce themselves. 
0 thus means that the learners should at least be able to understand 
these language forms if used by others. The exponents marked 0 have a 
high degree of predictability. Beyond these, the learners will be 
confronted with many other language forms, particularly in 


<!-- pdf-page:32 -->
26 
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
connection with item 3 of the ‘extended characterisation’. Because of 
the low degree of predictability of these forms, no attempt is made to 
provide any further guidance in this document. Such an attempt would 
also be futile in the light of the emphasis that is placed here on the self- 
help strategies that are supposed to give the learner access to texts 
containing unknown elements. 


<!-- pdf-page:33 -->
27 
5 Language functions 
Introduction 
In the present specification the language functions -what people do by 
means of language - are listed in six broad categories: 
1 imparting and seeking factual information 
2 expressing and finding out attitudes 
3 getting things done (suasion) 
4 socialising 
5 structuring discourse 
6 communication repair 
The second category is by far the most comprehensive and is 
subdivided as follows: 
2.1-2.4 
factual: agreement, etc. 
2.5-2.14 
factual: knowledge, etc. 
2.15-2.22 factual: modality 
2.23-2.28 volitional 
2.29-2.50 emotional 
2.51-2.57 moral 
The lists of functions under each category heading are the result of a 
process of selection. The principle of selection has been throughout 
that the functions selected should meet the most likely and urgent 
needs of the learners and that together they should not exceed an 
average learning load of two to three years for courses of average 
intensity, i.e. two to three hours per week, 35-40 weeks a year. 
In many cases more than one way of expressing a given function is 
suggested. It is, of course, entirely acceptable for learners to decide not 
to use the full range of alternatives given. They should, however, be able 
to understand all the options provided when they are used by other 
people. The symbol 0, for receptive use only, has been used sparingly to 
indicate that a particular option, though likely to be encountered in 
contact with native speakers, is felt to be of lower priority in the 
learners’ productive repertoire. 
Language functions may be fulfilled directly and indirectly. They are 
fulfilled directly if an exponent is used in its conventional meaning, i.e. 


<!-- pdf-page:34 -->
28 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
1 
1.1 
1.1.1 
1.1.2 
1.1.3 
1.1.4 
1.2 
1.2.1 
in the meaning that would normally be assigned to it if it were used in 
isolation. You should go now' fulfils the function of 'advising others to 
do something' directly, whereas 'It's getting late' - in its conventional 
meaning fulfilling the function of 'reporting' - may serve the same 
purpose indirectly. The possibilities for the indirect fulfilment of 
language functions vary in accordance with the situational and the 
linguistic context of a communicative act. This variation is such that a 
systematic description and selection on behalf of our objective is not 
possible. The exponents we propose, therefore, are on the whole those 
which may be considered to fulfil the functions concerned directly. 
This does not mean that the indirect fulfilment of language functions 
should be avoided in course materials designed for Threshold Level. On 
the contrary, an attempt to do so might lead to highly unnatural 
language use. 
Language functions for Threshold Level 
including recommended exponents 
Imparting and seeking 
factual information 
Id en t i fy i ng (def i n i ng) 
(with suitable gesture) 
this (one), that (one) 
these, those 
It is + me, you, him, her, us, 
them 
the + NP/this, that, these, those 
(+ NP) +be + NP 
'This is the ,bedroom. 
The " animal over .there I is 
I, you, he, she, it, we, they + be 
+ NP 
'He is the ,owner of the 
.restaurant. 
reporting (describing and 
narrating) 
declarative sentences 
The 'train has ,left. 
my ,dog. 
1.2.2 
NP + say, think + complement 
clause 
He .says the 'shop is ,shut. 
1.3 
correcting 
1.3.1 
As 1.1 and 1.2, with 
contrastive stress 
'This is the .bedroom. 
The .train 'has .left. 
1.3.2 
(correcting a positive 
statement) 
(e.g. Valletta is in ,Italy.) 
No (+ tag) 
'No it "isn't. 
1.3.3 
negative sentences 
Va.letta 'isn't in "Italy. 
1.3.4 
(correcting a negative 
statement 
(e.9. We 'didn't go to 'London.) 
Yes (+tag) 
'Yes you " did. 


<!-- pdf-page:35 -->
S 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
29 
1.3.5 
positive statements (with 
intensifying do) 
You "did .go to -London. 
1.4 
asking 
1.4.1 
(for confirmation) 
1.4.1.1 interrogative sentences 
'Did you ,see him? 
1.4.1.2 declarative sentences with 
high-rising intonation 
You 'saw him? 
1.4.1.3 statement and question tag 
They ,lost the .match, I 
,didn't they? 
1.4.2 for information 
1.4.2.1 wh questions 
(ti me) when? 
'When will the .guests ar,rive? 
(place) where? 
'Where is my ,purse? 
(manner) how? 
'How do you .make an 
,omelette? 
(degree) how fir/much/long 
hot, etc.? 
'How .far is it to ,York? 
(reason) why? 
'Why did you .say ,that? 
1.4.2.2 Please(canyou)tellme+ 
1.4.3 
1.5 
subordinate clause/ + NP 
'Please can you .tell me the .way 
to the ,station? 
seeking identification 
(person) who? 
'Who is ,that? 
(possession) whose + NP? 
'Whose .gloves are ,these? 
(thing) what? which + NP? 
'What is ,this? 
'Which ,suit will you .wear 
tonight? 
(event) What happened? 
answering question 
1.5.1 
(for confirmation) 
Yes, No (+tag) 
,Yes, I he ,is. 
,No, I he ,isn't. 
1.5.2 
(for information) 
declarative sentences, clauses, 
phrases and single words 
1.5.2.1 (time) ('When will it ,happen?) 
At '6 p.,m. 
1.5.2.2 (place) ('Where's my ,box?) 
'On the ,table. 
1.5.2.3 (manner) ('How do you ,drive?) 
'Not very ,fast. 
1.5.2.4 (degree) ('How ,far is it?) 
'Not very ,far. 
1.5.2.5 (reason) ('Why are you ,here?) 
(because +) declarative 
sentence 
Beecause I am a ,member. 
1.5.3 
(seeking identification) 
See 1.1. 
2 
Expressing and finding 
out attitudes 
factual: agreement, etc. 
2.1 
expressing agreement with a 
statement 
2.1.1 
I ('quite) a,gree. 
2.1.2 
'That's ,right. 
2.1.3 
'That's cor,rect. 
2.1.4 In'deed. 
2.1.5 
E'xactly. 
2.1.6 
(with a positive statement) 
2.1.6.1 Yes (+ tag) 
2.1.6.2 Of purse. 
2.1.6.3 ,Certainly. 
(You .work 'hard.) 
,Yes, I we ,do. 


<!-- pdf-page:36 -->
30 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.1.6.4 (,Yes) I 'think/be'lieve ,so. 
2.1.7 
(with a negative statement) 
2.1.7.1 No (+ tag) 
(You 'can't .stop 'now.) 
'No, I we 'can't. 
2.1.7.2 Of \course .not. 
2.1.7.3 'Certainly ,not. 
2.1.7.4 (No) I don't" think so. 
2.1.7.5 I be'lieve ,not. 
2.2 
expressing disagreement 
with a statement 
2.2.1 
I 'don't a'gree. 
2.2.2 
That's 'not ,right. 
2.2.3 You are 'wrong(,there). 
2.2.4 
(with a positive statement) 
2.2.4.1 No (+ tag) 
2.2.4.2 'Not ,so. 
2.2.4.3 'Certainly ,not. 
2.2.4.4 I 'don't 'think so. 
2.2.5 
(with a negative statement) 
2.2.5.1 Yes (+ tag) 
('Spinach is 'horrible.) 'No it ,isn't 
(To-morrow 'isn't "Wednesday.) 
'Yes it "is. 
2.2.5.2 I think (+ positive statement) 
2.3 
2.3.1 
2.3.2 
2.3.3 
I .think he 'will -come. 
enquiring about agreement 
and disagreement 
statement + question tag 
She is 'French, I ,isn't she? 
'Don't you agree (+ that 
clause)? 
'Don't you a-gree that she is 
{beautiful? 
Do(n't) you think + 
complement clause 
'Don't you -think it's ,nice? 
2.4 
denying statements 
2.4. I 
That 'isn't 'true. 
2.4.2 
No (+ negative tag) 
(You 'saw me -there.) 
'No I "didn't. 
2.4.3 
Negative sentences (with not, 
never, nowhere. nobody, 
nothing, or not + ever, 
anybody, anywhere, anything) 
I -saw ,nothing. 
I 'didn't .see ,anything. 
factual: knowledge, etc. 
2.5 
stating whether one knows 
or does not know a person, 
thing or fact 
2.5.1 
I ('don't) ,know 
2.5.1.1 + complement clause 
I 'know she 'left, I but I 
'don't .know ,why (she .left). 
2.5.1.2 + wh (+ clause) 
2.5.1.3 + NP 
I 'know .Mrs 'Thatcher. 
2.6 
enquiring whether someone 
knows or does not know a 
person, thing or fact 
2.6.1 
Do you know 
2.6.1.1 + complement clause? 
2.6.1.2 + NP? 
2.6.1.3 + wh (+ clause)? 
'Do you ,know that she is -dead? 
'Do you .know ,Kenya? 
'Do you .know where he ,lives? 
'Do you .know ,why he did that? 
2.6.2 Have you heard 
2.6.2.1 + complement clause? 
'Have you -heard that the 
,President has .died? 
'Have you .heard of an-opera 
called 'Die ,Nachtschwalbe'? 
2.6.2.2 + of + NP? 


<!-- pdf-page:37 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
31 
2.6.2.3 + wh clause 
'Have you .heard what 
-happened to,day? 
2.6.3 Youknow 
2.6.3.1 + complement clause, + don't 
you? 
You 'know it's .six o'"clock, 
'don 't you? 
2.6.3.2 + NP, + don't you? 
You ,know .Mrs ,James, I 
,don't you? 
2.6.3.4 + wh clause, + don't you? 
You ,know where he ,lives, 1 
,don't you? 
remembers or has forgotten a 
person, thing or fact or action 
2.7 
stating whether one 
2.7.1 
I (don't/can't) remember 
2.7.1.1 + VP gerund 
2.7.1.2 + wh clause 
I 'don't remember .saying "that. 
I 'can't re-member .where 
I .put my ,handbag. 
I re'member that he .gave 
it ,back. 
I re'member our .holiday 
in {Spain. 
2.7.2 
I for,get. 
2.7.3 
I have(n't) forgotten 
2.7.3.1 +to + VPinf 
2.7.1.3 + complement clause 
2.7.1.4 + NP 
I've for'gotten to .lock 
the ,door. 
I 'haven't foregotten your 
,birthday. 
I have for'gotten my 
,passport. 
2.7.3.2 + NP 
2.7.3.3 + VP gerund 
'I have 'not formgotten 
.climbing .Mont ,Blanc. 
I've for'gotten where it 'is. 
remembers or has forgotten a 
person, thing, fact or action 
2.7.3.4 + wh clause 
2.8 
enquiring whether someone 
2.8.1 
Da(n't) you remember? 
2.8.2 
Do(n/t)you remember 
2.8.2.1 + VP gerund 
'Don't you re-member coming 
,home .last might? 
'Do you re-member where 
you ,left it? 
'Don't you re-member that 
,James was .there, 1 ,too? 
'Do you re-member Ca,pri? 
2.8.2.2 + wh clause 
2.8.2.3 + complement clause 
2.8.2.4 + NP 
2.8.3 Have you remembered 
2.8.3.1 + to + VPinf 
'Have you re.membered to 
-feed the ,cat? 
'Have you re-membered her 
,birthday ? 
2.9 
expressing degrees of 
probability 
2.9.1 
(certain'ly) 
He will 'certainly be ,there. 
2.9.2 
probably 
'They will 'probably ,lose, 1 
2.9.3 
possibly 
but they may "possibly 'win. 
2.9.4 (not) (very) likely 
It's 'not very "likely, . . . 1 
2.8.3.2 + NP 


<!-- pdf-page:38 -->
32 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.9.5 
2.9.6 
2.9.7 
2.9.8 
2.10 
2.10.1 
2.10.2 
2.10.3 
2.1 0.4 
2.1 1 
2.1 1.1 
2.1 1.2 
2.1 1.3 
impossible 
... but 'not im,possible. 
NP + be + certain/likely + to + 
VPinf 8 
The mu-seum is 'certain to 
be ,closed. 
It is certain/probable/likely/ 
possible/impossible 
+ complement clause 
It is 'likely you will ,pass. 
N P will/must/may/can/cot 
+ VPinf 
That .painting 'cannot be by 
Pi,casso. 
enquiring as to degrees of 
pro ba bi I ity 
be + NP certain/likely + to 
+ VPinf? 
'Is the .story .likely to be ,true? 
Is it certain/probable/likely 
possible + complement 
clause? 
'Is it .likely to ,rain? 
Will/must/may/can + N P + 
VPinf? 
'Can .oil and .water ,mix? 
sentences in 2.9 + high rising 
intonation 
The mu.seum is 'certain to be 
dosed? 
expressing or denying 
necessity (including logical 
deduct ion) 
(not) necessary/necessarily 
'Good ,shoes I are 
neces'sarily ex,pensive. 
NP + must/cannot + VPinf 
People 'must ,sleep .sometimes. 
NP + need not + inf 
'Classical ,music I 'need .not 
be ,boring. 
2.1 1.4 
2.12 
2.12.1 
2.12.2 
2.13 
2.13.1 
2.13.1 
soltherefore + declarative 
sentences 
'I am ,thinking 1 .therefore 
'I ex,ist. 
enquiring as to necessity 
(including logical deduction) 
necessary/necessarily (in 
interrogative sentences) 
Is 'that neces.sarily ,so? 
must + NP + VPinf? 
"Must .things be .black or 
.white? 
expressing degrees of 
certainty 
confident assertion (positive 
or negative) 
1 certainly (in declarative 
sentences) 
She is 'certainly .over ,thirty. 
2.1 3.1.2 I am (quite) certain/sure 
(+ complement clause) 
I am 'quite ,sure I that 
'Stalin .died in .19.5,2. 
2.13.1.3 declarative sentences with 
stressed do, be or auxiliary 
I ,did .post the .letter. 
(with low falling intonation) 
'Ankara is in ,Turkey, I ,isn't it? 
2.13.1.5 declarative sentences (+ I 
think/suppose unstressed) 
'Rome is in ,Italy, I Isthink. 
I 'know I.run is in ,Spain I 
' not ~ France. 
2.13.1.7 declarative sentence +tag 
with low fallinghigh falling 
intonation 
You're 'Polish, I 'aren't you? 
2.1 3.2 tentative assertion 
2.13.1.4 declarative sentences (+ tag) 
2.13.1.6 Iknow+ thatclause 


<!-- pdf-page:39 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
33 
2.13.2.1 toseem 
The translation 'seems to 
be cor,rect. 
2.13.2.2 perhapslmaybe (also in 
declarative sentences) 
'Maybe you're ,right. 
2.13.2.3 I'don't "thinkso. 
2.13.2.4 I (don't) thinkfbelieve + that 
clause 
I .don't -think he has 
'ever ,been -here. 
2.1 3.2.5 I'm not (quite) sure, but + 
declarative sentence 
I'm 'not .quite "sure, I but 
I 'think he has al-ready ,gone. 
2.1 3.2.6 declarative sentence + I 
think (with rising/ 
falling-rising intonation) 
He's 'French, I I ,think. 
2.13.2.7 declarative sentences + tag 
with low-rising intonation 
You're .coming on 
'Thursday, 1 ,aren't you? 
2.13.3 complete uncertainty 
2.1 3.3.1 I don't know (+ ifclauselwh 
clause) 
I 'don't -know if he will ,come. 
2.13.3.2 I'mnot(atall)sure(+if 
cl a uselwh clause) 
I'm 'not at all .sure what 
he 'wants. 
2.1 3.3.3 I wonder + ifclause/wh 
2.14 
2.14.1 
clause 
I 'wonder why they .go to 
.London by ,car. 
enquiring about degrees of 
certainty 
Are you (quite) sure (+ that 
clauselif clauselwh clause 
'Are you .sure the .food is 
,cooked? 
2.14.2 Do you (really) thinybelieve 
suppose + that clause? 
'Do you .think this is .real ,silk? 
clause? 
How ,sure are you that 
.Bade is in .Switzerland? 
factual: modality 
2.14.3 How sure are you + that 
2.1 5 
expressing obligation 
2.1 5.1 NP + have tolmust + VPinf 
We 'must be .home before 
,midnight. 
2.16 
enquiring about obligation 
2.16.1 interrogative sentences and 
wh questions corresponding 
to 2.15 
'Must we .fill in this 'form ,now? 
'When -have we to ,leave? 
2.17 
expressing ability/inability to 
do something 
2.17.1 NP + =(not) + VPinf 
I can under'stand .Spanish 1 
but I 'can't ,speak it .well. 
2.1 7.2 NP + be (not) able to + VPinf 
I am 'able to .ride a ,horse. 
2.1 7.3 NP + be unable to + VPinf 
'John is un.able to ,read .yet. 
2.18 
enquiring about ability or 
inability to do something 
2.18.1 interrogative sentences and 
wh questions corresponding 
to 2.1 7 
'Can you .speak ,Spanish? 
'Are you .able to .ride a ,horse? 
2.19 
expressing that something is 
or is not permitted, or 
permissible 
2.19.1 NP +be(not)allowed 
'Smoking is a1,lowed. 


<!-- pdf-page:40 -->
34 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.1 9.2 
2.1 9.3 
2.1 9.4 
2.20 
2.20.1 
2.20.2 
2.20.3 
2.2 1 
2.21.1 
2.2 1.2 
2.21.3 
2.2 1.4 
2.21.5 
2.21.6 
2.22 
2.22.1 
2.22.2 
2.22.3 
2.22.4 
2.22.5 
NP + be (not) permitted @ 
Pho'tography is .not 
per'mitted in the ca.thedral. 
People/You/can/may/must not 
+ VPinf 
You must Inot be ,lazy. 
Peoplelyou are not supposed 
to + VPinf 
'People are 'not sup-posed 
to .walk on the ,grass. 
enquiring whether something 
is or is not permitted or 
permissible (including 
seeking permission) 
Can/may + I/people/one + 
VPinf? 
'May I .come ,in? 
Do you mind (+ if clause)? 
'Do 
you .mind if I .sit ,down? 
Is it all right (+ if clause)? 
'Is it all .right if I ,smoke? 
granting permission 
,Yes. 
'Certainly. 
'Please ,do. 
'That's all ,right. 
That's ,quite all .right. 
Of ,course. 
withholding permission 
,No. 
You ,can't. 
I'm a'fiaid pot. 
I'm sorry (+ but clause) 
I'm "sorry, I but it's 'too ,late. 
It is not allowed/permitted 
Not + adverbial (nowltonight) 
herelin this country etc.) 
('Can I ,park here?) 'Not until 
.6..30 
p,m. 
volitional 
2.23 
expressing wantddesires 
2.23.1 I'd like + NP 
I'd 'like an .ice,cream 
2.23.2 I'd like + to + VPinf 
I'd 'like to .wash my ,hands. 
2.23.3 I want + NP, please 
I .want a 'cup of ,tea, -please. 
2.23.4 I want + to + VPinf, please 
I 'want to -go to the ,toilet, 
.please. 
2.23.5 (please) may I (+ VPinf) 
'Please may I .have a ,drink. 
2.23.6 Can I have + NP (please) 
'Can I .have my ,bill, .please? 
2.24 
enquiring about 
wanWdesires 
2.24.1 'What would you ,like (to ,do)? 
2.24.2 Wouldyouiike+ NP/+to+ 
VPinf 
'Would you -like a ,cake? 
2.24.3 Do you want + NP/ + to + VPinf 
'Do 
you .want to .try the 
.suit ,on? 
2.25 
expressing intentions 
2.25.1 NP + be + going to + VPinf 
I'm 'going to .buy a .new ,car. 
2.25.2 NP + will + VPinf 
1'11 ex'plain ,later. 
2.25.3 NP + intend@) to + VPinf 
'Ann in.tends to .go to 
A,rnerica. 
gerund 
We are 'thinking of ,driving to 
.Turkey. 
2.26 
enquiring about intentions 
2.26.1 interrogative sentences and 
wh questions corresponding 
to 2.25 
2.25.4 NP + be thinking of + VP 


<!-- pdf-page:41 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
35 
2.27 
expressing preference 
2.27.1 If'd) prefer + NP 1 to + VPinf 
I'd pre'fer to .go by ,train. 
2.27.2 I prefer + NP + to + NP 
I pre'fer 'hockey I to ,football. 
2.27.3 I('d) rather (not) + VP 
I'd 'rather .not ,fly .there. 
2.27.4 I('d) rather VPinf (than + 
contrastive element) 
I'd 'rather .drink ,coffee I 
than ,tea. 
2.28 
enquiring about preference 
2.28.1 interrogative sentences and 
wh questions corresponding 
to 2.27 
'Do you pre-fer ,coffee to -tea? 
'Which do you pre,fer? 
'Where would you .rather ,go, 1 
'London or ,Oxford? 
2.28.2 NP or NP? 
'Tea or ,coffee? 
2.28.3 Adj or Adj? 
'Black or ,white? 
emotional 
happiness 
2.29 
expressing pleasure, 
2.29.1 That's 'lovely/'wondew'great! 
2.29.2 How 'nice! 
2.29.3 I'm/I feel so 'happy! 
2.29.4 I'm 'very ,pleased. 
2.29.5 I'm (very) glad/deLighted (+ 
thatclause to + VPinf) 
I'm 'very .glad to ,see you .here. 
unhappiness 
2.30 
expressing displeasure, 
2.30.1 'Oh ,dear! 
2.30.2 I 'don't .feel very/a.t all ,happy. 
2.30.3 I .feel/am .feeling('very 
2.31 
enquiring about 
un,happy/,miserable. 
pleasure/displeasu re 
happinesshnhappiness 
2.3 1 . 1 'How ,are you? 
2.31.2 'How are you ,feeling? 
2.31.3 'Are you ,happy? 
2.3 1.4 'Are you ,pleased? 
2.32 
expressing liking 
2.32.1 NP + be (very) good/nice/ 
pleasant 
This .coffee is 'very ,good. 
(very much) 
I 'like .riding .very ,much. 
2.32.3 I love NPNP gerund 
I 'love ,cats. 
2.33 
expressing dislike 
2.33.1 Ugh! 
2.33.2 NP + be not (very/at all) 
nice/pleasant 
That's .not a't all ,nice. 
2.33.3 NP + be + nasty/horrible 
'Sour .milk is ,nasty. 
2.33.4 I don't likelenjoy NPNP 
gerund (very muwat all) 
I 'don't ,like 1 ,sweet .tea. 
2.33.5 I hate + NPNPgerund 
I 'hate ,hurting .people. 
2.33.6 I'd hate/I wouldn't like + to + 
VPinf 
I 'wouldn't .like to be ,late. 
dislikes 
gerund 
'Do you emjoy ,ballet? 
2.32.2 I likelenjoy + NPNP gerund 
2.34 
enquiring about likes and 
2.34.1 Do you like/enjay NPNP 


<!-- pdf-page:42 -->
36 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.34.2 How do you like NPNP gerund 
'How do you .like .playing 
\pop .music? 
2.34.3 'What do you ,like? 
2.35 
expressing satisfaction 
2.35.1 'Good! 
2.3 5.2 'Fine! 
2.35.3 demonstrative t be (very) 
good / ni c e 
.That's 'good. 
,need/,meant/.had in ,mind. 
2.35.4 ("his is) 'just what I ,want(ed)/ 
2.35.5 (following dissatisfaction) 
2.35.5.1 'That is ,better. 
2.35.5.2 It's ('quite) all ,right (,now). 
2.35.5.3 'That will ,do. 
2.35.5.4 That is ('good) e,nough. 
2.36 
expressing dissatisfaction 
2.36.1 declarative sentences 
'This .soup is ,cold. 
The 'T,V .doesn't .work. 
2.36.2 I'm not satisfiedhappy 
(with this + NP) 
I'm 'not .happy with this ,fridge. 
2.36.3 I don't like/want this (+ NP) 
I 'don't ,want this +soup. 
2.36.4 I don't like/want NP like this 
I 'don't ,like .cabbage like sthis. 
2.36.5 Demonstrative be not right 
(Yet) 
This is 'not ,right .yet. 
2.36.6 Demonstrative be not want I 
want(ed)/had in mind/meant 
These are 'not what I .had 
in ,mind. 
2.36.7 That will 'not ,do. 
2.36.8 That is 'not ,good e.nough. 
2.37 enquiring about 
2.37.1 Are you satisfied/happy (with 
satisf action/dissatisfaction 
+ NP)? 
'Are you {satisfied with your 
.meal? 
2.37.2 Do youlike NP like this7 
'Do you ,like .coffee like -this? 
2.37.3 .Is it 'all ,right (,now)? 
2.37.4 'Is this what you ,want(ed)/ 
,need/ ,meant/.had in ,mind? 
2.37.5 Howdoyoulike/find NP? 
'How do you .find our ,beer? 
2.37.6 'What is the ,mattel? 
2.38 expressing interest 
2.38.1 'Really! 
2.38.2 Is 'that ,so! 
2.38.3 'How ,interesting! 
2.38.4 I am (very) interested in NPNP 
gerund 
I am 'interested in .old ,stamps. 
'Greek .men .interest me 
,greatly. 
2.38.5 NP interests me (greatly) 
2.39 
expressing lack of interest 
2.39.1 'How ,boring! 
2.39.2 I am boredm NP) 
I am 'bored I by ,politics I on -T,V. 
2.39.3 I am notlnot very/not at all 
interested in NPNP gerund 
I am not a't all ,interested 1 in 
.going a,broad. 
2.39.4 NP does not interest me (very 
muchlat all). 
.Sport does 'not .interest me a,t 
all. 
2.39.5 It doesn't matter (+ that 
dauselif clause) 
It 'doesn't ,matter 1 if it 'rains or 
,not. 


<!-- pdf-page:43 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
37 
2.39.6 
2.39.7 
2.39.8 
2.40 
2.40.1 
2.40.2 
2.41 
2.41.1 
2.41.2 
2.41.3 
2.41.4 
2.41.5 
2.41.6 
2.41.7 
2.41.8 
2.42 
2.42.1 
2.42.2 
2.42.3 
2.43 
I don't care (+ that clause/ if 
c I a use) 
I 'don't ,care 1 if it is 'foggy or 
,fine. 
I don't mind (+ that clause/ if 
clause) 
I 'don't ,mind 1 if you (smoke. 
Whatever you ,say/ ,like. 
enquiring about interest or 
lack of interest 
Are(n't) you interested in 
NPNP gerund? 
'Aren't you 'interested in 
.foreign {languages? 
Do(es)(n't) NP interest you? 
'Does p ho, tog rap h y 4 n terest 
you? 
expressing surprise 
'What a sur,prise! 
'How 
sur,prising! 
'Fancy ,that! 
'Well, 'thisl'that ,is a sur-prise! 
'That is sur,prising! 
I'm surprised (+ that clause/to 
+ VPinf) 
I'm sur'prised I to 'hear ,that. 
Fancy + VP gerund 0 
'Fancy .swimming at ,Christmas. 
It surprises me + that clause 0 
It sur,prises me I that the 
.dollar is \so ,weak. 
expressing lack of surprise 
Well? 
'So ,what? 
(It is) 'Just as I ex,pected. 
enquirina about surprise 
- 
2.43.1 Does 'that sur,prise you? 
2.43.2 Is 'this/'that .what you 
ex(pected7 
2.43.3 'myou sur,prised (+ that 
clause) 
'Are you sur,prised I that I 
.came to ,see you? 
2.44 
expressing hope 
2.44.1 I ('do) 'hope ,so. 
2.44.2 I ('do) 'hope {not. 
2.44.3 I (do) hope + that clause. 
I 'hope it .stays 'fine. 
2.44.4 I hopelam hoping + to + VPinf 
I 'hope to be-come a ,doctor. 
2.45 
expressing disappointment 
2.45.1 What a pity + that clause! 
'What a ,pity I that they 'can't 
have ,children. 
2.45.2 That's a ('great) ,pity! 
'What a ,shame! 
2.46 
expressing fear 
2.46.1 'Help! 
2.46.2 I'm 'frightened. 
2.46.3 I'm afraid (+ that clause/ to + 
VPinf/of + NP) 
I'm a'fraid of .that .man. 
2.46.4 I'm (rather) worried (about NP) 
I'm 'rather .worried about Joan. 
2.47 
giving reassurance 
2.47.1 'There. ,there. 
2.47.2 'Don't be afraid. 
2.47.3 'Don't ,worry. 
2.47.4 It's ('quite) dl ,right. 
2.48 
enquiring about fearlworry 
2.48.1 Are you afraid/frightened (of 
NPNP gerund)? 
'Are you a.fraid of the ,dark? 


<!-- pdf-page:44 -->
38 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.48.2 Are you worried (about NP)? 
'Are you .worried about 
your ,health? 
2.48.3 Is 'something ,worrying you? 
2.48.4 'Is there .something on your 
,mind? 
2.49 
expressing gratitude 
2.49.1 'Thank you ('so ,much('very 
,much (in,deed) 
2.49.2 ('Many) ,thanks! 
2.49.3 I t w t was ('very/'most) ,kind/ 
nice/good of you (to + VPinf) 
It was 'most ,kind of you I to 
,call. 
2.49.4 I'm very grateful to you (for 
NPNP gerund) 
I'm 'very ,grateful .to you I 
for ,telling me a.bout it. 
reacting to an expression of 
gratitude 
2.50 
2.50.1 -Thank 'you. 
2.50.2 'Not a,t all. 
2.50.3 It's a ,pleasure. 
moral 
2.51 
offering an apology 
2.51.1 'Sorry! 
2.51.2 I am ('very) ,sorry! 
2.51.3 I'm 'so ,sorry. 
2.51 -4 'Please for,give me. 
2.51.5 I a,pologise. 
2.51.6 I 'do a,pologise. 
2.51.7 (for disturbing somebody) 
I 'beg your ,pardon. 
Ex,cuse me .please. 
2.52 
accepting an apology 
2.52.1 'Not a,t all. 
2.52.2 That's 'quite -all Bright. 
2.52.3 'That's all ,right. 
2.52.4 It 'doesn't ,matter. 
2.52.5 It 'doesn't .matter a,t all/a ,bit. 
2.52.6 For,get it. 
2.53 
expressing moral obligation 
2.53.1 NP be not supposed to + VPinf 
You are 'not sup.posed to 
,do that. 
You 'ought to .drive more 
2.53.2 NP should (not)/ought (not) to 
,slowly. 
2.54 
expressing approval 
2.54.1 ('very) ,good 
2.54.2 (That's) 'fme/'excellent. 
2.54.3 'Well ,done. 
2.55 
expressing disapproval 
2.55.1 Tut-tut (clicks) 
2.55.2 That'slit's 'not very 'good/ 
'nice. 
2.55.3 You 'shouldn't doDave .done 
"that. 
2.56 
enquiring about 
approval/disapproval 
2.56.1 'How's ,this? 
2.56.2 'IS *this dl ,light? 
2.56.3 'Do you approve (of + NP/ 
VP gerund) 0 
'Do you ap,prove I of the 
.Welfare ,State? 
VP gerund? 
'What do you .think of ,cricket? 
gerund? 
'How do you .find .living in 
,England? 
2.56.4 What do you think of + NP/ 
2.56.5 Howdo youfmd NPNP 


<!-- pdf-page:45 -->
39 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
2.57 
expressing regret, sympathy 
2.57.1 'What a ,shame! 
2.57.2 What apity(+ that clause) 
'What a ,pity I 'Peter .died 
so ,young. 
2.57.3 It's a(great)pity(+ that clause) 
It's a 'great ,pity 1 he .left the 
/party. 
2.57.4 I'm (so/very) sorry (+ that 
clause/if clause) 
I'm 'sorry if I "hurt you. 
2.57.5 I'm (so/very) sorry about NP 
I'm so 'very ,sorry 1 about your 
\i I I ness. 
2.57.6 I'm (so/very) sorry to + VPinf 
I'm ,sorry I to -hear you 
are .going a,way. 
2.57.7 'Oh ,dear ... 
3 
Decidin on courses of 
3.1 
action ( B uasion) 
suggesting a course of action 
(involving both speaker and 
addressee) 
3.1.1 
Let's+VPinf! 
'Let's \go! 
3.1.2 
Shallwe+VPinf? 
'Shall we ,dance? 
3.1.3 
We could + VPinf 
We .could 'go for a 'walk. 
3.1.4 
What/How about + N PNP 
gerund 
'How about .walking ,home? 
3.1.5 
We might (perhaps) + VPinf 
We might per'haps .go by 'train. 
3.1.6 Why not + VPinf? 
'Why not ,fly there? 
3.1.6 
Whydon'twe+VPinf? 
'Why don't we .ask them to 
,dinner? 
3.2 
3.2.1 
3.2.2 
3.2.3 
3.2.4 
3.3 
3.3.1 
3.3.2 
3.3.3 
3.3.4 
3.3.5 
3.3.6 
3.3.7 
3.4 
3.4.1 
3.4.2 
3.4.3 
3.4.4 
agreeing to a suggestion 
,Yes, Jet's. 
'Why ,not? 
(That's a) 'Good i,dea. 
requesting someone to do 
something 
Please + VP imperative 
'Please .sit ,down. 
VP imperative +please 
'Stop ,talking, .please. 
Would/could you (please) + 
VPinf? 
'Could you .please dose 
the ,door? 
Would you be so kind as to + 
VPinf 
'Would you be so .kind as to 
,wait? 
Kindly + VP imperative + 
(please) 
'Kindly .make .less ,noise 
.please. 
Would you mind + VP gerund 
'Would you .mind .opening 
the ,window? 
Can I have + NP + VP past 
'Can I have my ,shirt .washed? 
advising someone to do 
something 
You should + VPinf 
You should 'go to the pol,ice. 
You ought to + VPi nf 
You 'ought to be more ,careful. 
Why don't you + VPinf 
'Why don't you .stop ,working 
so .hard? 
If I were you, I'd + VPinf 
If 'I were 'you I I'd 'phone 
him ,now. 
'All ,right. 


<!-- pdf-page:46 -->
40 
S 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
3.5 
3.5.1 
3.5.2 
3.5.3 
3.5.4 
3.6 
3.6.1 
3.6.2 
3.7 
3.7.1 
3.7.2 
3.7.3 
3.8 
3.8.1 
3.9 
3.9.1 
3.9.2 
3.9.3 
warning others to do 
something or to refrain from 
doing something 
VP imperative with 
fallinghising intonation 
Be "careful! Look "out! 
Don't + VPinf 
Don't 'cut youraself. 
Mind + NP 
'Mind your "head! 
declarative sentences with 
implication 
That .knife is 'sharp. (Be careful 
not to cut yourself.) 
encouraging someone to do 
something 
'Come ,on (+ VP imperative) 
'Come ,on, 1 'keep (trying. 
Now then (+ VP imperative) 
'Now ,then, I 'don't ,stop. 
instructing or directing 
someone to do something 
You + VP (simple present) 
You .take a 'freshly .peeled 
,onion. 
imperative sentence 
'Mix the .flour, .eggs and 
.milk to,gether. 
passive sentences (esp. in 
written instructions) 
The 'kit is as,sembled 1 by 
'bolting the .parts to,gether. @ 
requesting assistance 
'Can/'Could you ,help, me, 
.please? 
offering assistance 
'Let me ,help you! 
'Can 
I ,help you? 
'Can I .give you a ,hand? 0 
3.9.4 
3.10 
3.10.1 
3.1 0.2 
3.10.3 
3.10.4 
3.1 1 
3.1 1.1 
3.1 1.2 
3.1 1.3 
3.1 1.4 
3.1 1.5 
3.1 1.6 
3.1 1.7 
3.12 
3.12.1 
3.1 2.2 
3.12.3 
3.12.4 
'Can you ,manage? 
inviting someone to do 
something 
(How) Would you like to + 
VPinf? 
'How would you 4ke to come 
'sailing? 
What/How about + VP gerund 
'What about a .nice ,swim? 
Do + VPinf 
'Do have .one of ,mine. 
You must + VPinf 
You 'must .come to ,dinner .with 
accepting an offer or 
invitation 
'Yes, ,please. 
us. 
'Thank you. 
That will be 'very ,nice. 
I'd be glad to + VPinf 
I'd be 'glad to .come ,with you. 
With ,pleasure. 
,Right. 
I'd ,like/love to. 
declining an offer or 
invitation 
'No ,thank you. 
(I'm "sorry but) I can't + VPinf 
I'm "sorry I but I 'can't ,come. 
It's very good of you + but 
clause 
It's very "good of you, I but my 
,wife is .ill. 
Unfortunately I can't + VPinf 
Un'fortunately 1 I 'can't .eat 
,cheese. 


<!-- pdf-page:47 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
41 
3.12.5 
3.13 
3.13.1 
3.14 
3.14.1 
3.14.2 
3.14.3 
4 
4.1 
4.1.1 
4.1.2 
4.1.3 
4.2 
4.2.1 
4.2.2 
4.3 
4.3.1 
4.3.2 
4.4 
4.4.1 
4.4.1.1 
I'm afraid I can't + VPinf 
I'm a-fraid I 'can't .leave the 
,dog. 
enquiring whether an offer or 
invitation is accepted or 
declined 
Will you + VPinf (after all) 
'Will you be 'coming to 
.dinner after .all? 
asking someone for 
something 
(I'd like) NP + (please) 
I'd .like a 'gin and ,tonic, .please. 
Can I have + NP, (please) 
'Can I .have a .piece of ,cake? 
Please may I have + NP 
'Please -may I .have ,that .one? 
(See also volitional attitudes 
2.23-28.) 
Socialising 
attracting attention 
Ex'cuse ,me. 
'HalJo. (i nforma I) 
I 'say ... 0 
greeting people 
'Hal,lo. 
.Good ,morning/after\noon/ 
,evening (more formal) 
when meeting a friend or 
acquaintance 
'How ,are you? 
'How are you ,keeping? 8 
replying to a greeting from a 
friend or acquaintance 
if in normal health 
(I'm) 'fine ,thank you. 1 'How 
4.4.1.2 (I'm) 'very ,well .thank you I 
and 'haw are ,you? 
4.4.2 
if in poor health, etc. 
4.4.2.1 "Well, 1 "so-so. 1 'How are ,you? 
4.4.3 if recovering from an illness, 
etc. 
4.4.3.1 'Much ,better, .thank you. I 
'How are you? 
4.5 
addressing a friend or 
acquaintance 
4.5.1 
first name 
'Hal,lo .John, I 'how are you 
\keeping? 
4.6 
addressing a stranger 
4.6.1 
honorific (e.g. Professor, Dr, 
Mr, Mrs, Miss + family name 
'Good ,morning, .Mrs .Jones, I 
'how are ,you to .day? 
4.7 
addressing a customer or a 
member of the general public 
4.7.1 
formal: Sirmadam 
That will be '35 ,pounds, Sir. 
4.7.2 
popular, familiar: Dearmve 8 
'How many do you ,want, dear? 
4.7.3 
informal: no address form 
'Seventy-five ,pence, .please. 
4.8 
introducing someone to 
someone else 
4.8.1 
formal 
4.8.1.1 address form + may1 
introduce + honorific +first 
name +family name 
Pro'fessor ,Smith, I 'may I 
intro. duce Dr -Anthony 
,Browning? 
4.8.1.2 address form + I'd like you to 
meet (+ honorific) +first name 
+family name 
'Mrs Ale,xander, I I'd 'like you 
are you? 
to .meet .Jonathan ,Prior. 


<!-- pdf-page:48 -->
42 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
4.8.2 informal 
4.8.2.1 address form, this is + first 
name +family name 
'John I 'this is .Jane ,Hargreaves, 
'Jane I 'this is .John ,Smith. 
4.8.2.2 first name +meet +first name 
'Jenny, I 'meet !Bill. 
4.9 
when being introduced to 
someone, or when someone 
is introduced to you 
4.9.1 
formal 
4.9.1.1 'How 
do you ,do? 
4.9.2 informal 
4.9.2.1 'Pleased to ,meet you 
4.9.2-2 'Hel,lo! 
4.10 
congratulating someone 
4.10.1 Con'gratuJations! 
4.10.2 'Well ,done! 
4.1 1 
proposing a toast 
4.1 1.1 ,Cheers! 
4.1 1.2 Your('very) .good ,health. 
4.1 1.3 Here's to) + NP 
'Here's to the .bride and 
,groom ! 
4.12 
taking leave 
4.12.1 formal 
4.12.1 , 1 'Good ,morning/after,noon/ 
4.12.2 informal 
4.12.2.1 'Bye,bye! 
4.1 2.2.2 'Cheeri,o. 8 
4.12.2.3 (I'll) be ,seeingyou 
(to,morrow/next ,week etc. 
4.12.3 if you are not expecting to 
meet again 
4.1 2.3.1 'Good,bye. 
'night. 
5 
Structuring discourse 
5.1 
opening (See also Language 
5.1.1 on formal occasions 
5.1.1 . 1 'Ladies and ,gentlemen! 
5.1.2 
5.1.2.1 'Mrl'Madam ,Chairman 
5.1 -2.2 'Chair (.person) 0 
5.1.3 informal 
5.1.3.1 ,Right! 
5.1.3.2 Ahem (sound of clearing one's 
throat) 
5.1.3.3 ,Well .now 
5.2 
hesitating 
5.2.1 looking for words 
5.2.1,l er ... 
Functions 4.1,4.2.) 
as participant in a meeting 
5.2.1.2 ...YO u .know ... 
5.2.1.3 ... now 'let me ,think 
5.2.1.4 ... 'just a ,moment 
5.2.1.5 ... 'what's the ,word for it? 
5.2.1.6 ... 'How shall I ,put it? 
5.2.2 (for forgotten name) 
5.2.2.1 ... ,What's its/his/ber .name? 
5.2.2.2 ... ,What do you .call it? 
5.2.2.3 ... ,thingumajig @ 
5.3 
correcting oneself 
5.3.1 ,No... 
5.3.2 "Sorry ... 
5.3.3 
I .mean ... 
5.3.4 
5.3.5 'Let me .try/.sta.rt a,gain. 
5.3.6 or .rather ... 
That's 'not (e.xadly) what I 
.meant to ,say. 


<!-- pdf-page:49 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
43 
5.3.7 
5.4 
5.4.1 
5.5 
5.5.1 
5.5.2 
5.5.3 
5.6 
5.6.1 
5.6.2 
5.6.3 
5.6.4 
5.7 
5.7.1 
5.7.2 
5.7.3 
5.8 
5.8.1 
.that is to .say ... 
introducing a theme 
I'd like to say something about 
+ NP 
I'd 'like to say .something about 
the .problem of pol,lution. 
expressing an opinion 
As 'I .see it I ... 
As 'I see it, I 'terrorists are 
,murderers. 
In 'my 0-pinion, I ... 
In 'my opinion, I 'most T:V. 
.programmes are ,boring. 
I 'think ... 
I 'think we should ,go now. 
enumerating 
in the first place ..., in the 
second place ... (etc.) 
In the 'first .place, I 
'smoking is ,bad for you, I 
in the "second .place, I it 
'smells un,pleasant. 
First ..., then ..., then ... 
'First ,order, I 'then ,eat, 1 
'then .pay the ,bill. 
... and ... and ... 
'Mix to,gether I 'flour and 
'milk and ,eggs. 
For one thing ... for another ... 
For "one -thing 1 she is 
too ,young, I for a'nother 1 
she is 'not in,telligent 
e-nough for .this -job. 
exemplifying 
For example ... (written e.g.) 
For instance ... 
... and so on (written etc.) 
emphasising 
in speech 
5.8.1.1 use of stress 
5.8.1.2 word order 
That's 'wonderful! 
Now "this .picture I I 'like .very 
,much. 
5.8.2 
in hand- or type-written texts: 
5.8.2.1 use of underlining 
He is verv u nrel iable, 
5.8.3 
5.8.3.1 
5.8.3.2 
5.8.3.3 
5.8.4 
5.8.4.1 
5.8.4.2 
5.8.4.3 
5.8.4.4 
5.8.4.5 
5.9 
5.9.1 
5.9.2 
5.10 
5.10.1 
5.10.2 
5.10.3 
in printed texts: 
use of italics 
Cairo is the capital of Egypt. 
use of bolding 
This is most important. 
use of capitals 
Do NOT park here. 
special phrases: 
especially 
These .cakes are e'specially .nice. 
(please) note + that clause 
'Please ,note I that we are 
,closed on .Mondays. 
it is important + that clause 
(not) to + VPinf 
It is im'portant to dose the 
,door. 
Now this is important. 
I must stress the fact + that 
clause 
I must 'stress the ,fact I that 
'fire is ,dangerous. 
summarising 
to 'sum ,up ... 
in "brief ... 
changing the theme 
'something ,else ... 
to 'change the ,subject ... 
I'd 'like to .say .something 
,else. 


<!-- pdf-page:50 -->
44 
5 
L A N G U A G E 
F U N C T I O N S 
5.1 1 
asking someone to change 
the theme 
5.1 1.1 I'd 'like to .ask you .something 
,else. 
5.1 2 
asking someone's opinion 
5.12.1 'Whatdo you.think? 
5.1 2.2 'What is ,your o.pinion/.view? 
5.12.3 'Where do you .stand on +this 
.matter3 
5.1 3 
showing that one is following 
a person's discourse 
5.1 3.1 I ,see. 
5.13.2 ,Yes/,No. 
5.13.3 ,Uh-huh. 
5.13.4 ,Really. 
5.13.5 ,Oh. 
5.1 3.5 In'deed. 
5.14 
interrupting 
5.14.1 Ex'cuse ,me. 
5.14.2 'May ,I .come in .here? 
5.14.3 'May ,I say .something7 
5.14.4 'No, I'm 'sorry but ... 
5.1 5 
asking someone to be silent 
5.15.1 Sh! 
5.1 5.2 ,Quiet, .please! 
5.1 6 
5.1 6.1 'After you. 
giving over the floor 
(See also Language Functions 
2.21 .> 
indicating a wish to continue 
5.1 6.2 By ,all .means. 
5.17 
5.17.1 'One ,moment .please. 
5.17.2 'Just a ,minute. 
5.17.3 'Please .let me ,finish. 
5.17.4 'As I was ,saying ... 
5.18 
encouraging someone to 
continue 
5.18.1 'Do .go ,on. 
5.1 9 
indicating that one is coming 
to an end 
5.19.1 'Finally, ... 
5.1 9.2 To "finish, I I should 'like to 
5.1 9.3 In con'clusion, ... 
5.20 
closing 
5.20.1 at the end of a speech 
'Thank you for your at,tention. 
5.20.2 at the end of a conversation 
5.20.2.1 Well, it's been 'nice ,talking 
to you. 
(See also Language Functions 
4.12.) 
telephone 
,say ... 
5.21 
opening 
5.21.1 on answering a call 
5.21.1.1 telephone number 
.Oxford 'five oh .two -double 
,one. 
5.21.1.2 Hallo (this is +) personal 
name + speaking 
'Hal,lo this is 'Mary ,Smith 
.speaking. 
5.21.2 when initiating a call 
5.21.2.1 personal name + here 
Mar'cel Le,blanc ,here. 
5.21.2.2 This is + personal name 
This is 'Gunther ,Schmidt. 
5.22 
asking for: 
5.22.1 a person 


<!-- pdf-page:51 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
45 
5.22.1.1 (Can 
I speak to) + personal 
name + please? 
'Can I .speak to (George, 
-please? 
5.22.1.2 Could you put me through to 
+ personal name + please 
'Could you .put me .through to 
.Mr (Oakham, .please? 
5.22.2 extension 
5.22.2.1 extension + number + please 
5.23 
asking someone to wait 
5.23.1 'Hold the ,line, .please. 
5.23.2 'Just a ,moment, .please. 
5.24 asking whether you are heard 
and understood 
5.24.1 'Are you (.still) 'there? 
5.24.2 'Can you ,hear me? 
5.25 
Ex-tension 'one oh \six, .please. 
giving signals that you are 
hearing and understanding 
See Language Functions 5.13. 
5.26 
announcing new call 
1'11 'call ,back/a\gain ,later/this 
,evening, etc. 
letters 
5.27 
opening 
5.27.1 if name is known 
5.27.1.1 Dear + address form (d. 
Language Functions 4.5,4.6) 
Dear Professor Jones. 
5.27.2 if name is not known 
5.27.2.1 Dear Sir/Madam 
5.28 
closing 
5.28.1 following 5.27.1.1 
5.28.1.1 Yours sincerely ... 
5.28.1 -2 (With) best wishes ... 
5.28.1.3 Love (from) ... 
5.28.2 following 5.27.2.1 
Yours faithfully ... 
6 
Communication repair 
(See also Chapter 12: 
Compensation Strategies.) 
6.1 
signalling non-understanding 
6.1,l "Sorry, I 'don't under,stand. 
6.2 
asking for repetition of 
6.2.1 (I 
'beg your) 'pardon? 
6.2.2 'What did you .say .please? 
6.2.3 ('Sorry) 'could you .say that 
a'gain (.please)? 
6.2.4 'Could you re'peat that 
.please? 
6.3 
asking for a repetition of a 
word or phrase 
6.3.1 
(sorry +) wh question 
"Sorry, 'where does she .live? 
6.3.2 (sorry +) wh did you say 
+ interrogative clause 
"Sorry, 'what did you -say 
his .name was? 
text 
'Did you say (anchovies? 
understanding 
clause? 
'Do you mean to .say that they 
.aren't (corning? 
6.6 
asking for clarification 
6.6.1 (Sorry)What does X mean? 
6.6.2 
sentence 
6.4 
asking for confirmation of 
6.4.1 Did you say: X? 
6.5 
asking for confirmation or 
6.5.1 Doyoumeantosay+ that 
'What does ,anglophile .mean? 
What do you mean by X? 
'What do you -mean by ,good? 


<!-- pdf-page:52 -->
46 
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
6.6.3 
6.6.4 
6.7 
6.7.1 
6.7.2 
6.8 
6.8.1 
6.9 
6.9.1 
6.9.2 
6.9.3 
6.9.4 
6.10 
6.10.1 
6.10.2 
What is X? 
'What is .kicking the 
,bucket? 
'Could you =,plain that, 
.please? 
asking someone to spell 
something 
'Could you ,spell that, .please? 
'How do you ,spell that, 
.please? 
asking for something to be 
written down 
'Could you .write that ,down 
for me, .please? 
expressing ignorance of a 
word or expression 
(See also Language Functions 
5.2.) 
I 'don't .know .how to ,say it. 
I 'don't .know .what you ,call 
it. 
I 'don't ,€mow the .word in 
.English. 
In (native language) we say ... 
In "German we .say 
Ver,dienst .Kreuz. 
appealing for assistance 
What is the English for + 
(native language word)? 
'What is the .English for ,funghi? 
What is (native language 
word) in English? 
'What is framboise in ,English? 
6.1 0.5 ...yo u know ... 
It's a ... 'you .know ... 
6.10.6 ... er... 
I .found a ... er ... er .,, 
6.1 1 
asking someone t o speak 
more slowly 
6.1 1.1 ('Can you -speak) 'more ,slowly, 
.please. 
6.1 1.2 'Not so ,fast, .please. 
6.1 2 
paraphrasing 
6.1 2.1 alsome kind/sort of + generic 
term 
'some I kind of ,animal 
6.1 2.2 something like + related term 
'something .like a ,cabbage 
6.12.3 somethinglgeneric term + 
relative clause 
'something you .make with 
\eggs 
6.1 3 
repeating what one has said 
6.13.1 X (simply repeated as spoken) 
They'll .come at '5 o,'clock. 
6.1 3.2 X (repeated more slowly 
and without phonetic 
reduction) 
6.13.3 IsaidX 
I .said \seven ,hundred. 
6.1 3.4 What I said was X 
'What I .said ,was: 'Don't 
.walk on the ,grass. 
6.1 3.5 I saidthat + indirect speech 
form or close paraphrase 0 
I .said that I was 'very ,tired. 
6.10.3 How do you say (native 
6.1 4 
asking if you have been 
language word) in English? 
understood 
'How do you say .basta 
la .vista in ,English? 
6.10.4 ... What do you call it? 
6.14.1 'Is that ,clear(.now)? 
6.14.2 'Do 
you under,stand (.now)? 


<!-- pdf-page:53 -->
5 
L A N G U A G E F U N C T I O N S 
47 
6.1 5 
6.15.1 spelling out English letter 
spelling out a word or 
expression 
names 
M- 0- N- K- E- Y- 5 
6.1 5.2 X is spelt: ... 
6.1 5.3 You spell it: ... 
6.1 6 
Tough is spelt T- 0- U- G- H. 
You spell it B- R- I- G- H- T. 
supplying a word or 
expression 
6.1 6.1 Do you mean X? 
'Do you mean ,mushroom? 
6.16.2 Perhapsyoumeanx? 
Per'haps you -mean 
,raspberry? 
6.1 6.3 I think you mean X? 
I 'think you .mean a 
,badge. 
,Service .Cross per.haps? 
6.1 6.4 X (perhaps)? 


<!-- pdf-page:54 -->
48 
6 General notions 
Introduction 
The list of general notions is derived from a consideration of what, in 
general, people deal with by means of language, ofwhat concepts they 
may be likely to refer to whatever the specific features of a particular 
communication situation may be. 
We present the general notions under eight headings: 
1 existential 
2 spatial 
3 temporal 
4 quantitative 
5 qualitative 
6 mental 
7 relational 
8 deixis 
The following list indicates the subclasses of the notions selected and 
presents the various notions in the form of their exponents. Strictly 
speaking, we should have presented each notion and its exponent@) 
separately, but since the large majority of the notions would then have 
to be referred to by means of the corresponding exponent - the lexical 
item among is the exponent of the notion among- this would have led 
to almost constant duplication without any practical gain. 
General notions for Threshold Level 
including recommended exponents 
1 
Existential 
1.2 
presence, absence 
here, not here, there. not 
there, away 
1.1 
existence, non-existence 
There is + NP 
There’s no + NP 
1.3 
availabilitH non availability 
There isn’t any + NP 
the verbs to exist, to become, 
to make (as in: She ‘made a 
.new ,dress.) 
to have (got) 
There is + NP 
There’s no + NP 
There isn’t any + N P 


<!-- pdf-page:55 -->
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
49 
ready (as in 'When will it be 
,ready?) 
to happen 
1.4 
occurrence, non-occurrence 
2 
Spatial 
2.1 
location 
the following adverbs: here, 
there, everywhere, somewhere, 
nowhere, (not) anywhere, 
where?; inside, outside 
(in) the east/north/south/west 
to have been to (as in: She has 
.been to 'Paris.) 
this, that, these those 
2.2 
relative position 
the following prepositions of 
position: 
above 0, against, among 6, at, 
at the end of, at the side of, 
before 0, behind, below 6, 
beside 0, between, in, in front 
of, inside 6, in the centre of, 
next to, on, opposite, outside, 
over, round, under, 
where + sub-clause 0 
distance (as in: The 'distance 
from .A to ,B 1 is 'five ,miles.) 
far (away) from, near, in the 
neighbourhood (of) 0, ... away 
(as in: It is 'two ,miles away.) 
the following verbs of 
motion: to arrive, to come, to 
come along 0, to come + to NP 
(as in: He 'came to the ,house.), 
to fa 
to get up, to go, to 
hurry, to leave (as in: We 
have to (leave .now.), to lie 
down, to start to move (as in: 
2.3 
distance 
2.4 
motion 
2.5 
direction 
direction 
In 'which di-rection is ,Slough? 
the following adverbs: away, 
back, down (as in: 'Are you 
.going ,down?), in, out, (to the) 
left, (to the) right, straight 
on, up (as in: 'Are you .going 
,up?), east (as in: He .went 
,east.), north, south, west 
the following prepositions: 
across 0, along, down 0, 
for 0 (as in: He is 'leaving 
for ,Rome.), from, into, off, 
past. through, to, towards 0, 
up 0, away from 
the following verbs: to bring, 
to push, to put (as in: 'May I 
put my .coat ,here?), to send, to 
take (as in: 1'11 'take it to 
your ,room.), t o take away, to 
turn (as in: 'Turn .left at the 
,I ive r.) 
2.6 
origin 
from (as in: We .came from 
(London.), out of 
after (as in: '6 comes .after 
,A,), before (as in: 'A .comes 
before \B.), between, among, 
fmt (as in: 'John .came ,first.), 
last (as in: 'Peter .came ,last.) 
to carry, to follow, to pull 
2.7 
arrangement 
2.8 
dimension 
2.8.1 
size 
size (as in: 'What .size ,shoes 
do you .take?) 
the following adjectives: big, 
deep, high, large 0, low, 
narrow 0, short., small, tall, 
thick, thin, wide 
The .car 'did not ,rnove.),to pass 
2.8.2 
length 
(as in: You 'pass the ,railway 
.station.). to run, to stand 
still 0, to stop (as in: The 
'train ,stopped.), to walk 
centimetre, foot, inch, 
kilometre, metre, mile, 
millimetre, yard 


<!-- pdf-page:56 -->
50 
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
2.8.3 
2.8.4 
2.8.5 
2.8.6 
2.8.7 
3 
3.1 
3.2 
long (as in: 'How ,long is it?), 
short 
pressure 
heavy, light (as in: I .want a 
'light ,blanket.), high, low 
weight 
to weigh 
weight 
gram(me)s, kilo, lbs., 02.. 
ton(ne) 
the adjectives light and heavy 
volume 
gallon, litre, pint 
space 
big, small 
room (as in: You .have 'plenty of 
,room .here.) 
temperature 
temperature (as in: The 
.temperature is 'too ,high I for 
,me.), degree, zero (as in: It's 
'ten degrees below ,zero.) 
cold, cool, hot, warm 
to boil, to burn, to freeze, 
(to)heat, to get cold/hot/warm 
3.3 
Temporal 
points of time 
(three) o'clock 
(five) to/past (three) 
a quarter tolpast (three) 
(sixteen) minutes tolpast 
half past (three) 
(3) a.m./p.m. 0 
noon 0, midnight 0 
1500 (ffieen hundred), 1518 
(fifteen eighteen) 
at ... 
divisions of time 
moment, second, minute, 
quarter of an hour, half(an) 
hour, hour, day, week, 
(three) 
3.4 
fortnight ., 
month, year, 
century 
season, autumn, spring, 
summer, winter 
afternoon, evening, morning, 
night, weekend, holidafls) 
the names of days of the 
week, names of months 
indications of time 
time (as in: 'What ,time is it?) 
now, then, when?, soon, ago (as 
in: 'two .days a,go) 
today, tomorrow, yesterday, 
the day before yesterday, the 
day after tomorrow 
this morning/afternoon/ 
evening/week/month/year, 
tonight lasqnext +week/ 
monthbear 
prepositions: at (as in: at 
'three o',clock, at 'twenty ,past 
(three), at ,midnight), by@ 
(as in: by 'three o',clock), in 
(as in: in 'three ,days, in a 
,week, in ,summer, in the 
,autumn, in '1 98,9), on (as in: on 
,Sunday, on the 'first of June) 
dates: (spoken) the first of 
June 
(written) 1 June 1989 
Christmas, Easter 
duration 
prepositions: during. (as in: 
'during the ,holidays), for (as 
in: for 'three ,hours), since (as 
in: since '1 94,5), 
till, until 0, 
not ...till (as in: He 'won't be 
,here I till 'three o',clock.) 
to last (as in: It .lasts 'three 
,hours.), to take (as in: It .takes 
'three ,hours.) 
adjectives: long (as in: a 'long 
,time), short (as in: a 'short 
,time), quick (as in: a 'quick 
,meal) 


<!-- pdf-page:57 -->
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
51 
3.5 
3.6 
3.7 
3.8 
3.9 
3.10 
3.1 1 
earliness 
early (as in: You are 'early; 
There's an 'early .train on 
,Mondays.) 
lateness 
late (as in: We'll .have to 
'hurry, I we are 'late; We were 
'too .late for the ,train; We .went 
to the ,late .show.) 
an teriority 
present perfect (as in: 1 
'haven't 'seen .John I ,yet; I've 
.been to ,Paris.) 
past perfect (as in: I 'hadn't 
,done it.) 
before + NP/sub-clause 
before (as in: I'd 'never ,done it 
before.) 
already (as in: I have al'ready 
,done it.) 
yet (as in: 'Has he ,come .yet?: 
He 'hasn't ,come .yet.) 
earlier than ... 
posteriority 
after + NP/sub-clause 
afterwards, later (on) 
later than ... 
sequence 
first (as in: 'First we .went to 
Ma,drid.), then (as in: 'First we 
.went to Ma,drid, I 'then we 
-travelled to Gib,raltar.), next 0 
(as in: 'What did you .do ,next?). 
fmally (as in: "Finally 1 we .went 
,back.), later on 0, in the end 0, 
afterwards 
simultaneousness 
when + sub-clause 0, while + 
sub-clause 0, as soon as + sub- 
clause 0 
at the same time 
future reference 
NP + be going to ... 
NP+ will... 
3.12 
3.13 
3.14 
3.1 5 
3.16 
3.17 
present continuous of verbs of 
motion 
simple present (with 
adverbials of future time) 
(as in: We 'leave at ,midnight.) 
soon 
in (as in: in 'four ,weeks) 
next week/month/year/Sunday, 
etc. 
tonight, tomorrow, the day 
after tomorrow, this afternoon 
present reference 
present continuous 
simple present 
present perfect 
at present, now, today, still, 
(as in: He is 'still ,working.) 
this morning/afternoon/year 
etc. 
past reference 
past continuous 
simple past 
yesterday, the day before 
yesterday, formerly, just, 
recently 0, lately 0, last 
week/month, etc. 
reference without time focus 
simple present (as in: 
'Edinburgh is in ,Scotland.) 
delay 
later (as in: The 'train will 
come ,later.) 
delay. (as in: There will 
be a de,lay.) 
to be delayed 0 (as in: The 
'train will be de,layed.) 
speed 
fast, slow 
... miles/kilometres per hour 
frequency 
always, (hardly) ever, never, 
(not) often, once, rarely, 
seldom 0, sometimes, twice, 


<!-- pdf-page:58 -->
52 
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
3.18 
3.19 
3.20 
3.21 
3.22 
3.23 
3.24 
usually 
daily 0, weekly 0, monthly 0 
(as in: There are 'daily ,flights.) 
once every day 0 
... times a/per weewmonth, etc. 
on weekdaysISundays, etc, 
every week/Sunday, etc. 
continuity 
present continuous 
past continuous 
present perfect (as in: I've 
'lived .here for .two ,years.) 
to go on (as in: It will .go on 
for 'five ,years.) 
intermittence 
not always, sometimes, on and 
Off 
permanence 
always, for ever, for good 
temporariness 
for + NP (as in: You can 'have 
my .car for a (week.) 
not always 
present continuous 
past continuous (as in: He 
idwas .living in 'Scotland for 
.some .months.) 
repetitiousness 
again, many times, twice, 
several times 0, again and 
again 
uniqueness 
(only) once 
commencement 
to begin e, to start (as in: The 
'game .started at ,seven; He 
'started to ,speak.) 
to go ... (as in: 'Let's .go 
,sailing .) 
since (as in: I've .been here 
since '7 a.,m.), from (as in: I 
.work from '9 to ,12J 
3.25 
3.26 
3.27 
4 
4.1 
4.2 
cessation 
to end 0. to finish 0, to stop 
(as in: The .game will 'stop 
at ,six; He 'stopped {talking.) 
till, until 0, to (as in: from '9 to 
,I 2) 
stability 
to remain8 (as in: 'How .long 
will you re.main ,here; 'Will it 
re.rnain ,dry today?), to stay (as 
in: I will 'stay here for a ,week; It 
'won't .stay .dry for "long.), to 
keep (as in: 'How .long will this 
.milk .keep ,fresh?), towait (as 
in: We .had to .wait .only 'five 
,minutes.) 
change, transition 
to become (as in: 'Sugar has 
become ex,pensive.), to change, 
to get 0 (as in: He's .getting 
,old.), to turn (as in: The .leaves 
.turned ,yellow.) 
suddenly ... 
Quantitative 
number 
sing u la r/pl u ra I 
cardinal numerals 
ordinal numerals 
another (as in: 'May have 
a.nother .cup of ,tea, please?), 
about (as in: I have a-out ,f25.) 
quantity 
the following determiners: all, 
a lot of, any (also: hardly any, 
not any), both, each, enough, 
(a) few, (a) little, many, more, 
most, much, no, several, some 
half(as in: 'Give me ,half of 
it; 'Give me the ,other .half; 
'Give me .half a ,bottle.) 
at least (as in: I .need at 'least 
$5.) 


<!-- pdf-page:59 -->
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
53 
4.3 
5 
5.1 
5.1.1 
5.1.2 
5.1.3 
5.1.4 
5.1.5 
a bottle/box/cup/glass, packet/ 
piece, etc. of ... 
See further General Notions 
2.8. 
degree 
comparative and superlative 
degrees of adjectives and 
adverbs 
enough (as in: 'good e,nough), 
too ...I very ... 
a bit (as in: a 'bit ,better; a 
'bit ,tired) 0, a little (as 
in: a 'little ,better; a .little 
,tired), a lot (as in: a 'lot 
,better) 0, much (as in: 'much 
,better), almost, hardly 0, 
quite (as in: 'quite ,old), 
rather (as in: 'rather ,old), so 
(as in: I'm 'so ,sorry!) 
such0 (as in: It was 'such 
'fun! He is 'such a 'nice .boy!) 
even (as in: I've 'even .paid 
'f5.) 
Qua I i ta t ive 
physical 
shape 
adjectives: round, square 
dimension 
See General Notions 2.8. 
moisture, humidity 
dry, wet, damp, moist 
to dry, to (make) wet 
visibility, sight 
NP + can(not) see + NP 
NP + can(not) be seen 0 
to look (as in: 'Don't .look 
"now!), to look at, to watch 
adjectives: dark, light, 
(in)visible 
audibility, hearing 
NP + can(not) hear + NP 
NP + =(not) be heard 0 
5.1.6 
5.1.7 
5.1.8 
5.1.9 
5.1.10 
5.1.11 
to listen, to listen to 
nouns: noise, silence 0, sound 
adjectives: loud, silent 0, soft, 
quiet 
taste 
to taste (as in: 'How does your 
,soup .taste?; 'Would you .like to 
.taste ,this?) 
taste (as in: I 'don't .like the 
,taste.) 
adjectives: bad. nice, bitter, 
salt&), sour, sweet 
smell 
to smell (of) (as in: The 'food 
.smells 'good; 'Can you .smell 
,gas?; It .smells of ,paint.) 
smell (as in: The .flower has a 
'nice ,smell.), odour0, 
perfume 0 
adjectives: bad, nice, 
pleasant, unpleasant 
texture 
adjectives: hard, rough, 
smooth 0, soft strong, 
weak 0 
colour 
colour 
adjectives: blue, black, brown, 
green, grey. orange, red, white, 
yellar,light (as in: a ,light 
.colour; 'light ,blue), bright, 
dull, dark (as in: a ,dark .colour; 
'dark ,blue) 
age 
age 0 
I am ... (years old) 
How old are you (is helshe, 
etc.)? 
adjectives: new, old, young 
nouns: adult, baby, child 
month (as in: Her .baby is 'six 
.months ,old.), year 
physical condition 
adjectives: alive, all right, 


<!-- pdf-page:60 -->
54 
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
5.1.12 
5.1.13 
5.1.14 
5.1.15 
5.1.16 
5.2 
5.2.1 
5.2.2 
better (as in: He .got ,better.), 
dead, ill, well 
in/out of order 0 (as in: The 
'telephone is .out of ,order.) 
to look (as in: You .look 'very 
,well.) 
to break, to cut (as in: I've 
'cut my ,finger.), to (be) hurt, 
to die, to fasten, to tie, to 
repair, to put right 
accessi bi I ity 
to close (as in: The 'shop 
doses at ,six.) 
to get at, to open, to reach 
adjectives: closed, open 
cleanness 
to clean, to wash, (to) dust 0, 
(to) polish 0 
adjectives: clean, dirty 
material 
nouns and adjectives: 
cotton 0, glass, leather, 
metal, nylon, paper, plastic, 
silk, silver 
nouns: wood, wool 
made of wood, wooden 0. 
made of wool, woollen 0 
material 
genuineness 
real (as in: Ils this ,real 
.leather?) 
f u I I ness 
adjectives: empty, full (04 
to ffl 
evaluative 
value, price 
How much + be ... ? (as in: 
'How .much are .these ,shoes?) 
to cost e 
noun: price 
adjectives: cheap, 
(inkxpensive, high, low 
quality 
5.2.3 
5.2.4 
5.2.5 
5.2.6 
5.2.7 
5.2.8 
5.2.9 
noun: quality 
adjectives: bad, worse, worst 
poor 
good, better, best; excellent, 
fine, nice 
adverb: well (as in: He can 
.write .English -very ,well.) 
rightness, wrongness 
NP + should (not) + VPinf 
NP + ought to + VPinf 
adjectives: right, wrong 
acceptability, unacceptability 
That's all right. 
That's fme/nice. 
I don't like it. 
I cannot accept ... 0 
I'm against ... @ 
adequacy, inadequacy 
NP + be all right 
NP + be (not) enough 
That will do. tD 
desirability, undesirability 
to like 
See also Language Functions 
correctness, incorrectness 
adjectives: better, correct 0, 
incorrect 0, false 0, right, true, 
wrong, OK 
to be right, to be wrong, to put 
something right, to make 
something better 
successfulness, 
unsuccessf u lness 
to fail, to succeed, to try 
failure, success 
(un-)successful 8 
utility, inutility 
(not) useful. useless 4B 
NP + can(not) use ... 
2.32-2 -36. 
5.2.10 capacity, incapacity 
N P + can(not) ,.. 
NP + wilywon't ... 
NP + be able to ... 


<!-- pdf-page:61 -->
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
5s 
5.2.1 1 importance, unimportance 
7.3.2 
objective/factitive 
(not) important unimportant 0 
objective as object (as in: 
5.2.12 normality, abnormality 
normal, strange, ordinary 0 
'John .opened the ,door.) 
objective as subject of 
passive 0 (as in: The 'door was 
5.2.13 facility, difficulty 
.opened by ,John.) 
6 
6.1 
6.2 
7 
7.1 
7.2 
7.3 
7.3.1 
easy. difficult, h&d 0 (as 
in: His .English is 'hard to 
under,stand.) 
dif€kulty0 
Mental 
reflection 
to believe, to be sure, to be 
certain 0, to hope. to know, 
to remember, to think, to 
wonder d 
no doubt 0 
See also Language Functions 
expression 
to answer, to apologise 0, to 
ask, to forbid 0, to invite 0, to 
laugh, to recommend 0, to 
request 0 (as in: .Guests are 
re.quested to 'leave their .keys at 
the ,desk.), to say, to speak, to 
talk, to tell, to thank to write 
nouns: answer, question, 
statement 
2.5-2.8,2.13-2.14. 
Relational 
spatial relations 
See General Notions 2.2,2.3, 
2.5,2.6,2.7. 
temporal relations 
See General Notions 3.4-3.14. 
actionleven t relations 
agency 
agent as subject 
agent in by adjunct (passive) 0 
agent in emphatic: It was X 
who ... @ 
factitive as object (as in: She 
.made a 'new ,dress.) 
factitive as subject of 
passive 0 (as in: 'This ca,thedral 
I was .built in the 'thirteenth 
,century.) 
dative as indirect object (as 
in: He 'gave me a ,book.) 
dative in to adjunct (as in: He 
'gave the .ticket to my ,brother.) 
dative as subject of passive @ 
(as in: He was .given a ,book.) 
instrumental in with adjunct 
(as in: You can 'open the .door 
with .this ,key.) 
benefactive in for adjunct (as 
in: I have 'bought this for my 
,wife.) 
to have (as in: 'Can I have my 
,shirt .washed, .please?) 
See General Notions, Section 
2. 
7.3.8 
time 
See General Notions, Section 3. 
7.3.9 
manner, means 
in this way, like this 0 
by means of ... 0 
by + Ving 
as 0 (as in: They 'use it as a 
,fork.) 
adverbs: badly, fast hard (as 
in: We .have to -work 'very 
,hard.), hoM. quickly, slowly, 
well 
7.3.3 
dative 
7.3.4 
instrumental 
7.3.5 
benefactive 
7.3.6 
causative 
7.3.7 
place 


<!-- pdf-page:62 -->
56 
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
7.4 
contrastive relations 
7.4.1 
equality, inequality 
(not) the same (thing) (as ...) 
to differ 0 
difference 0 
different (from), else (as in: 
'Anything ,else?), other, 
another (as in: 'Give me 
a,nother (=different) .book.) 
in addition to the exponents 
of 7.4.1: like (as in: It's .like an 
'orange.) 
comparative degree + than (as 
in: 'John is ,older than his 
.brother; 'John .works ,harder 
than his .brother.) 
superlative degree (as in: He 
is the 'tallest .boy in the ,class.) 
as .,.as 0 (as in: He is as 'big as 
his {brother.) 
not so ... as 0 (as in: He is 'not so 
,big as his .brother.) 
7.4.2 
correspondence 
7.5 
possessive relations 
7.5.1 ownership, possession 
possessive adjectives (my, 
your, etc.) 
possessive pronouns (mine, 
yours, etc.). 
(as in: 'This is 
,mine.; as subject (as in: 'Mine is 
,better.) 
genitive singular of personal 
nouns 
of adjuncts 
with adjuncts, without 
adjuncts 
(as in: You 'cannot .travel here 
without a ,passport.) 
to belong to ... 0, to have 
(got) (as in: I have (.got) a 
'small ,car.). to get (as in: I .got 
a 'nice ,present from him.), 
to give, to keep (as in: 'May I 
,keep this?), to own 0, owner 0, 
own (as in: This is my 'own 
,book.) 
7.6 
7.6.1 
7.6.2 
7.6.3 
7.6.4 
7.6.5 
7.6.6 
7.6.7 
7.6.8 
logical relations 
conjunction 
and, as well as 6, but, also, too 
(as in: John is .leaving I ,too.), 
not ... either (as in: 'I cannot 
.swim I 'either.) 
together 
pair (as in: I 'want to .buy a .pair 
of ,shoes.), group (as in: a 
'group of ,friends) 
disjunction 
or 
inclusion/exclusion 
with (as in: We are 'going to 
.take him ,with us.),without (as 
in: We are 'not .going with,out 
him.) 
except 0 (as in: We 'all .went, 
except John.) 
also, too (as in: 'John is 
leaving 1 'too.) 
cause 
why ... 7 
because + sub-clause, as + 
sub-clause 0 
effect 
then ..., so ... (as in: He ,ate too 
much, I so he 'did not .feel 
,well.), so ... that 0 (as in: He ate 
'so ,much 1 that he 'fell ,ill.) 
the re'sult ,is ... 0 
reason 
why ... 7 
because + sub-clause 
since + sub-clause 
the reason is ... 0 
purpose 
to ... (as in: He 'came to ,help 
me.) 
in order to ... 0 
the purpose is ... d 
condition 
if+ sub-clause 


<!-- pdf-page:63 -->
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
57 
7.6.9 
focusing 
infor,mation on .train 
about (as in: I ‘don’t .want to 
,talk about the .war.), on (as 
in: I ‘cannot .give you .any 
.services.) 0, 
only (as in: I ‘only .wanted to 
’ he1 p .) 
a 
Deixis 
Deixis involves referring or identifylng by means of linguistic items belonging 
to closed sets the reference ofwhich i s dependent upon the context of the 
utterance (e.g. time,place, persons involved). Deixis may be definite or 
indefinite (hevs. someone), non-anaphoric or anaphoric (i.e. referring to an 
item already mentioned) (‘Why don’t you ,come? vs. 1‘11 ‘buy those ,books 1 
because I ,need them.) 
8.1, 
definite 
pronouns 
8.1.1 
8.1.2 
non-anaphoric 
personal pronouns (subject 
forms and object forms) 
possessive adjectives: my, 
your, etc. 
possessive pronouns as 
complement (as in: ‘This is 
,m he.) 
possessive pronouns as 
subject 0 (as in: ‘Mine is 
,better.) 
demonstrative adjectives and 
pronouns: this, that, these, 
those, such 
independent relative 
pronoun: 
what (as in: ‘What you .say is 
,true.) 
definite article: the 
interrogative pronouns: who, 
whom 0, whose 0, what, which 
interrogative adjectives: 
whose 8, what, which 
anaphoric 
personal pronouns (subject 
forms and object forms) 
possessive adjectives 
possessive pronouns as 
complement (as in: ‘You .take 
it, it’s ‘yours.) 
demonstrative adjectives and 
8.2 
relative pronouns: who, 
whom 8 whose 0, which, 
that @, omission of 
relative pronounO 
reflexive/emphatic pronouns: 
my.self, yourself, etc. (as in: I 
,hurt myself; I’ve ‘done it 
my,self ,) 
reciprocal pronoun: each 
other 
definite article: the 
adverbs: here, there, now, 
then, so (as in: He ‘wanted to 
.go .out I but he ‘didn’t ,say so.) 
prop word: one, ones (as in: I 
‘like the ‘red one.) 
substitute-verb: do (as in: He 
‘asked me to .help him, I and I 
,did.) 
indefinite 
indefinite article: a, an 
indefinite pronouns: someone, 
somebody, no one, (not) ... 
anybody, (not) ... anyone, 
nobody, each, everybody, 
everyone, something, 
(not) ... anything, nothing, 
everything, all (as in: They ‘all 
went ,home; I .want ‘all of it.), 
both (as in: They ‘both went 
,home; I .want ,both of them.), 


<!-- pdf-page:64 -->
58 
6 
G E N E R A L N O T I O N S 
some (as in: 'Some of them 
-went ,home.), it (as in: It's 
,raining.),you (as in: It's a 'nice 
,record 1 if you "like .modern 
.music.) 
indefinite determiners: 
See General Notions 4.2. 
adverbs: somewhere, nowhere, 
everywhere, (not) ... anywhere, 
sometimes, never, always 
semi-deictics: person (as in: 
There are 'five .persons 
,present.) 8, man 8 (as in: There 
were "animals .here I be'fore 
,man .came.) people (as in: 
'What do -people .think about 
the ,government?; There are 'five 
-people ,present.), thing (as in: 
'What do you ,call that .thing?), 
do (as in: 'What are you .going 
to -do to,night?) 


<!-- pdf-page:65 -->
59 
7 Specific notions 
Introduction 
In the following list the specific notions for Threshold LeveZ are arranged 
under 14 themes: 
1 personal identification 
2 house and home, environment 
3 daily life 
4 free time, entertainment 
5 travel 
6 relations with other people 
7 health and body care 
8 education 
9 shopping 
10 food and drink 
11 services 
12 places 
13 language 
14 weather 
The themes may relate to the situational context in which particular 
transactions may take place (e.g. buying something in a shop) as well as 
to topics for communicative interaction (e.g. talking about shopping 
facilities). Under the title of each theme an indication is given as to 
what learners at Threshold Level may be expected to be able to do with 
regard to it. These indications are necessarily incomplete and are to be 
supplemented from other components of our specification. 
To facilitate reference, the specific notions are further arranged under 
subthemes. In the same way as the general notions, the specific notions are 
indicated by means of their (recommended) exponents (see the 
introduction to the list ofgeneral notions). Alternative exponents of 
essentially the same notion are presented thus: first name/Christian 
name/forename/given name. In such a case the learner should be able to 
use at least one of them productively but to understand all the others. 
The specification contains several openended items indicated by italics 
(e.g. names ofocnrpations). In these cases we leave it to materials 
designers, teachers and learners to identify those specific notions, if 


<!-- pdf-page:66 -->
60 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
any, which suit their own purposes. In order to provide some guidance 
as to those notions, which, in our view, might be primarily considered 
we add, in a number of cases, a list of them preceded by ‘e.g.’ It should 
be understood, however, that the notions in such lists are merely 
offered by way of suggestion and have not got the status of definitely 
recommended ones. If a word may be used in different meanings, the 
meaning intended usually follows from its inclusion under a particular 
subtheme (e.g. tip under ‘eating and drinking out’) or it is clarified by 
means of contextualisation (e.g. letter: What’s the last letter of your 
name?). These illustrative sentences have no other role than 
clarification of the meaning of the word involved; they are not meant 
as recommended phrases for inclusion in course materials. 
Specific notions for Threshold Level including 
recommended exponents 
.................................................................................. 
1 
Personal identification 
The learners can say who they are, spell their name, state their address, 
give their telephone number, say when and where they were born, state 
their age, sex, say whether they are married or not, state their 
nationality, say where they are from, what they do for a living, describe 
their family, state their religion, if any, state their likes and dislikes, say 
what other people are like: elicit/understand similar information from 
others. 
1.1 
name 
name 
first name/Christian 
name/forename 
to belt0 be called 
He’s (.called) ,Bill. 
to sign 8 
signature @ 
surname/family name 
letter 
initials @ 
Mr ... 
Mrs ... 
1.2 
address 
‘What‘s the .last .letter of your 
,name? 
Miss ... 
Ms ... (writing) 
to writelto spell 
‘How do you .write/spell your 
,name? 
names of letters of the 
alp ha bet 
to call 
We .call him $Bill. 
to live 
‘Where do you ,live? 
address 
‘What’s your ad,dress? 
names of roads etc. e.g. park, 
road, square, street 
number 
I .live at ‘number fif,teen 
country 
I .live in the ,country 


<!-- pdf-page:67 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
61 
townlcity 
village 
names of countries e.g. Britain, 
Germany, Russia, Spain, 
Switzerland, the United States 
names of cities e.g. Athens, 
Basle, Brussels, Cologne, 
Copenhagen, Florence, Lisbon, 
The Hague, Vienna 
(See also Specific Notions 
11.2.) 
telephone 
'Have you 'got a ,telephone? 
to callfto phone/to ring up 
telephone number 
0 (pronounced [au] in 
telephone numbers) 
date and place of birth 
to be born 
I was 'born in ,London on ... 
date 
place 
birthday 
names of the months 
the required numerals 
See General Notions 5.1 .lo. 
1.3 
telephone number 
1.4 
1.5 
age 
1.6 
sex 
sex 0 
man 
woman 
1.7 
marital status 
(noqun-)mafiied 
single 0 
divorced 
separated 0 
widowed 0 
widow 
widower 
nationality 0 
names of nationalities e.g. 
American, Cypriot, Dutch, 
French, German, Swiss 
foreign 
foreigner 
to be from ... 
I'm from ,London. 
'Where are you ,from? 
to come from ... 0 
1.8 
nationality 
1.9 
origin 
1.10 
occupation 
job/occupation/profession 
to do 
What do you do (for a living)? 
names of occupa tions 
e.g. baker, businessman, 
bu si n esswo m a n , butcher, civi I 
servant, doctor/p h ysicia n, 
greengrocer, grocer, labourer, 
nurse, clerk, salesman, 
saleswoman, secretary, shop- 
assistant, soldier, teacher, 
tradesman, typist; farm worker, 
office worker 
names of places of work 
e . g . factory, fa r m , h 0s pit a I, 
off ice, school, shop 
names of occupational 
activities 
boy 
girl 
male 0 
female 0 
gentleman (as on lavatory 
doors) 0 
ladies (as on lavatory doors) 0 


<!-- pdf-page:68 -->
62 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
e.g. to buy, to teach, to sell, to 
work (as in: I .work in an 'office.) 
worker/employee 
boss/employer 
manager 
f@company 
to work 
'Where do you ,work? 
1.11 
family 
family 
'Have you 'brought your ,family? 
'Have you any ,family? 
parentslfather and mother 
child 
baby 
husband 
wife 
names of relatives 
e.g. aunt, brother, cousin, 
daughter, father, grandchild, 
grandfather, grandmother, 
mother, sister, uncle 
1.12 
religion 
religion 0 
names of religions e.g. 
Christianity (Christian, Orthodox, 
Catholic, Protestant), Islam 
(Muslim), Judaism (Jew), atheism 
(atheist) 
god 
God 
to believe in . , , 
church 
cathedral 0 
temple 8 
mosque 0 
service 0 
There are 'three ,services on 
.Sundays. 
1.13 
likes and dislikes 
See Language Functions 
2.32-34, objects of likes and 
dislikes to be derived from 
other themes. 
1.1 4 
character, disposition 
What sort of ... 7 
'What .sort of .man/.woman/ 
et c ./, is h els he? 
kind 
He is a 'very .kind 'person. 
nice 
good 
bad 
(un)pleasant 
quiet 0 
active @ 
(un-)intelligent 
(un-)generous 
6) 
1.1 5 
physical appearance 
lazy@ 
tall 
short 
fat 
thin 
Slim 
Pretty 
beautiful 
plain 
ugly 
dark (-haired) 
fair (-haired) 
bald 


<!-- pdf-page:69 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
63 
.................................................................................. 
2 
House and home, environment 
The learners can describe a house or flat and the rooms in it, refer to 
furniture and bedclothes, cost, services and amenities, describe regions 
and natural environment; obtainlunderstand similar descriptions and 
references from others; exchange views on these matters. 
2.1 
types of accommodation 
2.3 
furniture, bedclothes 
house 
furniture 
flat 
apartment 0 
building 
I 'have a ,flat I in a 'big ,building. 
names of pieces of furniture 
e.g. bed, chair, curtain, desk, 
lamp, table 
blanket 
(un-)furnished 
to buy 
to rent 
2.2 
accommodation, rooms 
room 
We have 'two ,rooms I on the 
'ground ,floor. 
We have 'plenty of ,room .here. 
names of rooms 
e.g. bathroom, bedroom, cellar, 
kitchen, Iavatory/toilet/w,c., 
living-room 
floor 
The "bedrooms I are on the 'first 
,floor. 
basement 0 
stairs 
downstairs 
The 'kitchen is .down,stairs. 
'Let's go down,stairs. 
upstairs 
The 'bathroom is up,stairs. 
'Let's go up,stairs. 
lift 
window 
door 
Wall 
cupboard 
garden 
pillow 
quilt 
sheet 
2.4 
cost 
(See also General Notions 
5.2.1 .) 
price 
to be 
The .room is 'f 55 per ,week. 
rent 
to let 
'Rooms to .let. 
for sale 
'House for .sale. 
included 8 
'Water is included in the ,rent. 
electricity 
gas 
heating 
central heating 
telephone 
water 
on 
The 'heating is ,on. 
O f f 
The 'heating is ,off. 
to turn on 
'Turn on the ,light .please. 
2.5 
services 


<!-- pdf-page:70 -->
64 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
to turn off 
'How do you .turn off the 
,heating? 
bath 
shower 
fridge 
television 
radio 
garage 
washing-machine 
to clean 
The -rooms are .cleaned 'twice a 
,week. 
to wash 
You can 'wash your .clothes 
down,stairs. 
part of the country 
2.8 
In "our .part of the .country I 
there are many ,factories. 
area Q 
farmland 0 
industry Q 
farm 
factory 
fields 
forest/wood 
hill 
lake 
valley 
mountain 
2.6 
amenities 
2.7 
region 
Canal 
river 
sea 
seaside Q 
coast Q 
beach 
island 
water 
land 
top 
We could .see the 'tops of the 
,mountains. 
bottom 
We could .see the 'bottom of the 
,lake. 
flat 
"Our .part of the -country I is 
'quite ,flat. 
flora and fauna 
animal 
Pet 
names of animals, birds, fish, 
insects 
e.g. bird, cat, cow, dog, fish, fly, 
goat, horse, insect, pig, sheep 
plant 
tree 
flower 
bush 
names of plants, trees, flowers 
e.g. daffodil, fuchsia, grass, oak, 
pine 


<!-- pdf-page:71 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
65 
.................................................................................. 
3 
Daily life 
The learners can describe their daily routines, at home and at work, 
can give information about income, schooling and prospects; 
obtainlunderstand similar information from others: exchange views 
on these matters. 
3.1 
at home 
to stop work 
(See also Specific Notions, 
Section 4.) 
to wake up 
to get up 
to wash 
to take a bath 
to take a shower 
to get (un-)dressed 
to have breakfast, etc. 
names of meals 
e.g. breakfast, lunch, tea, dinner, 
supper 
to cook 
I'll 'cook din,ner for you. 
to make 
'Shall I .make a .pot of ,tea? 
to wash up 
to clean 
I dean the .windows 'once a 
,week. 
to go shopping 
to go to school 
to go to work 
- 
break 
holiday@) 
canteen 
free 
We get a 'free ,meal I 'every ,day. 
to be free 
We are 'free I on ,Saturdays. 
days off 
We have 'two .days .off a ,week. 
colleague 
(on) strike 
unemployment 
social security/social benefits 
3.3 
income 
income/salary/wages 
to earn 
pension 
allowance 8 
See Specific Notions, Section 
grant8 
3.4 
schooling 
to come home 
8. 
to go to bed 
to go to sleep 
spare time 
(See also Specific Notions 
working hours 
to start work 
3.2 
atwork 
1.10.) 
3.5 
prospects 
to become 
I 'may become a ,doctor. 
to learn 
to study 
to qualify as 
to apply (for) 
I 'won't apply for "that .job. 


<!-- pdf-page:72 -->
66 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
.................................................................................. 
4 
Free time, entertainment 
The learners can say when they are free and what they do in their spare 
time, particularly with reference to hobbies and interests, public 
entertainment and private pursuits, mass media, sports and reading: 
obtainlunderstand similar information from others: exchange views 
on these matters: make use of entertainment facilities. 
4.1 
leisure 
to be free 
I'm 'free .after ,six. 
free timelspare time/leisure 
holidafls) 
to go out 
(See also Language Functions 
hobby 
names of hobbies 
e.g. carpentry, collecting stamps, 
fishing, gardening, knitting, 
photography, sailing 
names of fields of interest 
e.g. computers, films, music, 
politics, sports 
to go for ... 
I 'always .go for a ,walk I on 
,Sundays. 
4.1 
hobbies and interests 
2.32-34.) 
4.3 
radio, TV, etc. 
radio 
to listen to (the radio) 
television/I'V 
to watch crv) 
cable television 0 
network 
programme 
names of radiollv 
programmes 
e.g. current affairs, comedy, 
documentary, drama, film, news, 
quiz, commercials 
cassette recorder 
tape recorder 
tape 
cassette 
walkman 0 
video recorder 
videotape 
record/gramophone record 
record player 
CDlcompact disc 
CD player 
to play 
'Let's .play your .new ,record. 
song 
names of types of music 
e.g. classical, folk, jazz, modern 
music, pop music 
to show 
'What are they -showing on T,V 
to-night? 
4.4 
cinema, theatre 
names of places for public 
entertainment concert, etc. 
e.g. cabaret, cinema, circus, 
disco, night-club, theatre 
names of public performances 
e.g. ballet, concert, film, floor 
show, musical, opera, revue, 
show 
names of types of performers 
e.g. actor, actress, ballet dancer, 
disc jockey, (film) star, musician, 
pop star, singer 
names of musical instruments 
e.g. flute, piano, violin, guitar 


<!-- pdf-page:73 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
67 
to dance 
to Play 
'Who is .playing ,Hamlet? 
She +plays the gui,tar. 
to sing 
performance. 
ticket 
'1'11 .get the ,tickets. 
ticket office 0 
booking office 0 
afternoon performance 0 
matinee 0 
seat 
row 0 
We .have .seats in 'row ,five. 
front 
We have .seats in the ,front. 
centre 
back 
'Two .seats at the ,back, .please. 
entrance 0 
exit8 
emergency exit 0 
cloalcroom 0 
lavatory/toilet/w.c. 
Programme 
'Shall I -buy a ,programme? 
interval 8 
4.7 
4.6 
4.5 
exhibitions, museums, etc. 
museum 
gallery. 
art gallery0 
exhibition 0 
art 
picture/painting 
sculpture 0 
modern 
old 
antique 0 
open 
'Open on ,Sundays 1 2-5 p.,m. 
opening-hours 0 
closed 
to close 
The mu.seum 'closes at ,six. 
closing time 
intellectual and artistic 
pursuits 
to read 
to study 
to learn 
book 
story 
Poem 
names of types of books 
e.g. biography, detective story, 
novel, short story, spy story, 
thriller 
bookshop 
library 
to write 
to make 
He 'made a .picture of a ,bridge. 
names of art forms 
e.g. painting, photography, 
sculpture 
sports 
SPOWS) 
names of sports and games 
e.g. baseball, chess, cricket, 
football, hockey, (horse) racing, 
riding, snooker, (lawn) tennis, 
rugby, skiing, swimming 
to play 
I've 'never 'played ,hockey. 
(playing-) cards 
to watch 
race 
to race 


<!-- pdf-page:74 -->
68 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
game 
against 
to win 
to lose 
We 'saw .England against 
,France I in '6,S. 
draw 
4.8 
press 
The 'game .ended in a ,draw. 
newspaperlpaper 
player 
team 
club 
field 
ground 
We 'live near the ,football 
.ground. 
stadium 
ball 
magazine 
'Let's .buy some maga,zines. 
article 
picture 
advertisement 
Page 
reporter/journalist 
to read 
.................................................................................. 
5 
Travel 
The learners can use and refer to means of transport: travel by road, 
rail, sea and air for business and holiday purposes. 
5.1 
public transport 
to go 
'How can I .go to ,Liverpool? 
to travel 
traveller 0 
passenger 0 
to travel by air, train, bus, etc. 
journey 
aeroplane @ 
plane 
airport 
airline 
terminal 
Your .flight is from 'terminal ,A. 
to check in 
boarding-pass tB 
flight 0 
.Flight 'KL 17,5 1 has 'just 
ar,rived. En'joy your {flight. 
charter flight 0 
to fly 
security (as in: security check) 0 
gate 0 
The 'flight to .New ,York I is from 
'gate ,lo. 
to board 
stewardess/hostess 
bus 
coach 
bus stop 
driver 
train 
underground 
'Let's .take the ,underground. 
(railway) station 
railways 0 
platform 
Our .train .leaves from 'platform 
,lo. 
to change 
For 'Leeds 1 you .have to 
.change at 'Sheffield. 


<!-- pdf-page:75 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
69 
connection 8 
We'll 'miss our con'nection 1 to 
'Reading! 
fast train 
slow train 
tram 
tram stop 
boat 
ferry 6 
ship 0 
quay 
cabin 
harbour@ 
taxi/cab 
taxi rank,/cab rank 
taxi driver, cab driver 6 
booking-office 
to book 
time table 
fare 6 
'What's the .fare to ,Liverpool? 
ticket 
adult 
'One ,adult 1 and 'two ,children 
single 
'Two .singles to ,Brighton, 
.please. 
return 
A re'turn .ticket is 'cheaper I 
than .two (singles. 
class 
I 'always .travel ,second -class. 
business class 
tourist class 6 
to smoke 
waiting-room 
lounge 
arrival 8 
departure @ 
luggagebaggage 
5.2 
5.3 
lost property office 0 
travel bureau 6 
information office @ 
information desk 0 
enquiries 0 
restaurant 
refreshments 6 
bar 
delay 0 
to be delayed 6 
to cancel 
'Has our .flight been (cancelled? 
private transport (See also 
Specific Notions 5.3, 11.8 and 
1 1 *9.) 
names of vehicles 
e.g. bikehicycle, car, lorry, motor 
cycle, scooter, van 
to drive 
driver 
to ride 
cyclist 
to hirelto rent 
We could 'always .rent a "car. 
traffic 
street 6 
oneway street 0 
road 
main road 
motorway 
bridge 
level crossing 8 
roundabout 0 
to cross 
'Don't .cross "here! 
corner 
traffic lights 
crossing 


<!-- pdf-page:76 -->
70 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
blue zone 0 
In the 'blue ,zone I you can .park 
for 'one .hour ,only. 
speed 
speed limit 
fine 0 
You'll .have to .pay a .fine of 
'f,10. 
danger 0 
dangerous 
safe 
safety. 
safety belt 0 
signpost 
to follow 
'Follow the ,signs. 
pedestrian 0 
map 
distance 0 
to lose one's way 
common road-sign texts 
(reading only) 
e.g. cross now, exit, give way, 
keep left, keep right, no parking, 
no waiting, one way, stop, turn 
left, turn right 
5.4 
holidays 
journey 
tour 
guided tour 0 
tourist 
tourist office 
(tourist) guide 
POUP 
trip 
We 'went with a .group of 
,tourists. 
to visit 
sights @ 
names of sights and buildings 
of interest 
e.g. castle, cathedral, ruins, zoo 
abroad 
'Are you .going a,broad .this 
.year? 
to a foreign country 
'Are you .going to a .foreign 
,country .this .year? 
names of continents: Africa, 
America, Asia, Australia, Europe 
names of types of 
accommodation for travellers 
e.g. camp site, guest house, 
hotel, inn, tent, youth hostel 
single room 
double room 
full board 
halfboard 0 
bed and breakEast 
balcony 
view 0 
guest 
to book 
reservation e 
reception 0 
desk 0 
'Please .leave your .key at the 
,desk. 
to register 0 
registration form 0 
key 
to call 
'Can you -call me at ,six, -please? 
message 
'Is there a ,message for me? 
hall 
lounge @ 
lift 
to press 
5.5 
accommodation 


<!-- pdf-page:77 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
71 
button 
5.7 
entering and leaving a 
'Press the ,button I for the 'third 
,floor. 
frontierlborder 
to push 0 
immigration @ 
,Push I to 'open the ,door. 
to pull. 
,Pull I to 'open the ,door. 
flre 
In 'case of ,fire 1 ... 
country 
passport control @ 
visa @ 
customs 
to import a 
to check out 0 
bill 
'Can I have my ,bill, .please? 
receipt 
cheque 
to pay cash 
credit card 
to declare 0 
'Have you .anything to de,clare? 
to open 
'Will you .open your ,bag, 
.please? 
duty 0 
You'll 'have to .pay 'duty I on 
,this. 
duty-free 0 
money 
to change 
I .want to .change '500 ,dollars. 
currency 
camera 
5.8 
travel documents 
porter @ 
document @ 
'Do you .want a ,porter for your 
-luggage? 
insurance 
locker @ 
driving licence @ 
passport 
................................................................................... 
6 
Relations with other people 
The learners can refer to personal relations, participate in social life, 
deal with matters of correspondence, refer to club membership, refer 
to forms of government and politics, to matters of crime and justice, of 
war and peace, to social affairs; exchange information and views on 
these subjects with others. 
6.1 
relationship 
partner 
acquaintance 
stranger 
friend 
boy-friend 
girl-friend 
6.2 
invitations 
to invite 
invitation 
to make an appointment 
lover 


<!-- pdf-page:78 -->
72 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
to join 0 
'Will you .join us for ,lunch? 
to expect 0 
We'll 'expect you at ,six. 
to visit 
to come and see . . . 0 
'Why don't you .come and ,see 
us toenight? 
Party 
We're 'having a 'party I to,night. 
to talk 
to dance 
present 
He .brought a 'present for me. 
guest 
to correspond with ... @ 
to write (to) 
pen friend 0 
letter 
envelope 
postcard 
note paper 
Paper 
'Have you .got some ,paper for 
me? 
stamp 
airmail 
Pen 
pencil 
ball pointball peqbiro 
to send 
I'll 'send you a ,postcard. 
to receivelto get 
I .got a ,letter from her. 
answer 
to answer 
6.4 
club membership 
club 
member 
6.3 
correspondence 
meeting 
to meet 
We .meet 'every ,Wednesday. 
6.5 
government and politics 
to govern 
government 
parliament 
president 
kine 
queen 
prince 
princess 
minister 
prime minister 
to elect 0 
election 
to vote 
politics 
political 
Party 
'Are you a .party ,member? 
names of political parties 
e.g. communist, conservative, 
liberal, socialist 
right wing 
left wing 
leader 
He is the 'leader of the 
con,servatives. 
state 
The .state .owns 'many 
,factories. 
EU/European Union 
NATO [ne~tau] 
6.6 
crime and justice 
crime 
aiminal 
He is a ,criminal. 
to steal 


<!-- pdf-page:79 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
73 
thief 
burglar. 
theft 
to rob 
robber 
robbery 
to kill 
to murder . 
killer/murderer 
to kidnap 
kidnapper 
to hijack 
hijacker 
to rape 
rape 
to shoot 
gun 
bomb 
to throw 
The 'kidnapper .threw a ,bomb 1 
into the ,garage. 
terrorist 
terrorism 
drugs 
to take drugs 
addict 
alcohol 
victim 
police 
policeman 
policewoman 
police station 
to arrest 
law 
lawyer 
judge 
court 
burglary. 
jury 
witness 6 
prison 
to punish 
punishment 
6.7 
war and peace 
peace 
disarmament 
to fight 
-Y 
navy 
air force 
soldier 
officer 
enemy 
d Y 
battle 
attack 
to attack 
defence 
to defend 
defeat @ 
(nuclear) weapon 0 
gun 
bullet 
bomb 
missile 
SPY 
Wal- 
vict~ve 
6.8 
social affairs 
issue 0 
pollution 
Poverty 
problem 
question 
welfare 
rich 
poor 


<!-- pdf-page:80 -->
74 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
................................................................................... 
7 
Health and body care 
The learners can refer to matters of personal comfort, stating whether 
they feel well, are hungry, tired, etc., refer to matters of personal 
hygiene and obtain the articles required, refer to matters of health and 
illness and describe what is wrong to a doctor or dentist, report 
accidents, refer to medical services and insurance; exchange 
information and views on these matters. 
7.1 
parts of the body 
toothpaste 
7.2 
names of parts of the body 
e.g. arm, back, chest, foot, hair, 
hand, head, heart, leg, lungs, 
neck, stomach, tooth 
personal comfort 
comfortable 
I'm 'quite ,comfortable I ,now. 
The .chair 'isn't very 
" com f orta ble . 
hunger e 
h w 3 v 
thirst e 
thirsty 
tired 
to rest 
I'd 'like to ,rest a -little. 
towel 
to cut 
'Will you .cut my ,hair, .please? 
to shave 
to wash 
I'd 'like to ,wash before -dinner. 
'Can you .wash these ,clothes for 
me? 
laundry6 
'Is there a ,laundry .here? 
'Has the .laundry come ,back 
.yet? 
7.4 
ailments, accidents 
health 0 
ill 
tofallille 
sleepy 
to feel ill 
to sleep 
to wake up 
dead 
tofeelwell 
, 
killed 
to look well 
disease 
to be alivelto live 
7.3 
hygiene 
clean 
brush 
comb 
dirty 
razor 
sanitary towel 0 
sassors 
soap 
toothbrush 
illness 6 
pain/-ache 
I have a ,headache. 
feverltemperature 
to have a cold 
dizzy 
to feel sick 
to hurt 
names of diseases e.g. AIDS a, 
diabetes, diarrhoea, influenza 
(flu), V.D. e 


<!-- pdf-page:81 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
75 
operation 
I 'had an ope'ration I .last (year. 
to be operated upon 0 
acadent 
to fall 
to break 
He has 'broken his ,leg. 
to burn 
He has 'burnt his ,hand. 
to cut 
She has 'cut her ,finger. 
wound 
bandage/dressing 
diet 0 
7.5 
medical services 
dentist 
doctor 
nurse 
specialist 
chemist 
medicine 
'Do you .take any ,medicine? 
7.6 
tablet 
.Take 'three .tablets a ,day. 
ambulance 
hospital 
ward 8 
The 'patient is in the ,children's 
.ward. 
patient 0 
The .patient is 'waiting. 
to fill 0 
This .tooth was .filled 'six 
,months a-go. 
appointment 8 
'What .time is your 
ap'pointment? 
to see a doctor (dentist, etc.) 
prescription 0 
glasses 
insurance 
to insure 
insurance 
'Do you have .third-.party 
(insurance? 
pill. 
third-party 
.................................................................................. 
8 
Education 
The learners can exchange information and views on educational 
matters, particularly types of education, school subjects and 
qualifications. 
8.1 
schooling 
education 
to learn 
to take a course, lessons, etc. 
to teach 
to train 
He (was) 'trained to be a ,nurse. 
lesson 
course 
I 'took a -course in mathe,matics. 
lecture @ 
teacher 
master 6 
professor 
student 
PUPS 
names of types of education 
e.g. primary school, secondary 
school, university, college, adult 
education 


<!-- pdf-page:82 -->
76 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
8.2 
subjects 
certificate 0 
subject 
enamination 
'What ,subjects did you .take at 
names of school subjects 
e.g. arithmetic, computer 
science, economics, geography, 
to pass 
history, mathematics, physics, 
reading, science, writing 
,year. 
final examination 6 
entrance examination 6 
test 
I 'passed my exam,ination I 'last 
-school? 
8.3 
qualifications 
diploma 
to fail 
I 'failed my .driving-.test ,twice. 
................................................................................. 
9 
Shopping 
The learners can use shopping facilities, particularly obtaining 
foodstuffs, clothes, household articles and smokers' requisites, discuss 
prices, pay for things bought; exchange information and Views on 
these matters. For each of the following subthemes, see also under 
General Notions, particularly 2.8.1, 5.1.1,5.1.8-9, 5.1.14, 5.2.1-2. 
9.1 
shopping facilities 
9.3 
shop 
to go shopping 
supermarket 
department store 6 
market 
self-service 
names of types of shops 
e.g. baker's, butcher's, 
greengrocer's, grocer's, 
tobacconist's 
sale 
I've 'bought 'this I at the ,sales. 
it is my (etc.) turn 6 
to show 
to wrap up 0 
to change 
I 'want to .change this ,shirt; I it 
is 'not the .right ,colour. 
9.2 
foodstuffs 
See Specific Notions 10.1. 
9.4 
clothes, fashion 
(See also General Notions 
2.8.1 and 5.1.9.) 
clothes 
names of clothes 
e.g. blouse, coat, dress, hat, 
jacket, raincoats, shirt, shoes, 
skirt, socks, stockings, suit, 
tights, trousers, underwear 
pocket 
Purse 
wallet 
handbag 
jewellery 8 
watch 
'Have you .got a .new ,watch? 
to try on 
to put on (clothes) 
to take off (clothes) 
to wear (clothes) 
smoking 
tobacco 


<!-- pdf-page:83 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
77 
9.5 
10 
10.1 
Pipe 
agar 
cigarette 
ashtray 
to smoke 
9.6 
no smoking 
household articles 
fork 
knife 
spoon 
dish 
plate 
Be 'careful, I the .plate is 'hot. 
CUP 
saucer 
bottle 
Pot 
glass 
jar 
jug 
matches 
string 
prices 
(See also General Notions 
5.2.1 .) 
to Pay 
to spend 
money 
discount @ 
bank-notes 
coins 
credit card 
f (pound) 
P bemy) 
names of national currencies 
e.g. cent, dollar, franc, mark 
.................................................................................. 
0 
Food and drink 
The learners can refer to and order various kinds of food and beverage, 
also in a restaurant, cafk, etc.; exchange information and views on food, 
drink and places for eating and drinking. 
types of food and drink 
(See also General Notions 
5.1.6.) 
to eat 
meal 
snack 
names of meals 
e.g. breakfast, lunch, tea, dinner, 
supper 
to have breakfast, etc. 
chips 
salad 
soup 
meat 
names of kinds of meat 
e.g. beef, lamb, mutton, pork, 
vea I 
names of meat products 
e.g. hamburger, sausage(s) 
fish 
course 
'What's the ,main .course? 
vegetables 
names of vegetables 
e.g. beans, cabbage, carrots, 
cauliflower, mushrooms, peas, 
names of kinds of fish 
e.g. cod, plaice, sole 
poultry. 
names of kinds of poultry 
e.g. chicken, turkey 
potatoes, spinach 
el33 


<!-- pdf-page:84 -->
78 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
omelette 
cheese 
dessert 
sweet 0 
'Would you .like a ,sweet? 
ice-cream 
vanilla 
chocolate 
'Would you .like a .piece of 
,chocolate? 
'Chocolate .ice-,cream, .please. 
cake 
pastry 
pie 
tart 
Mt 
names of fruits 
e.g. apple, banana, grape, 
lemon, nut, orange, raisin, pear, 
strawberry 
mustard 
pepper 
salt 
Oil 
vinegar 
flow 
bread 
piece 
'Would you .like a .piece of 
,cake? 
Slice 
(bread) roll 
sandwich 
toast 
butter 
peanut butter 
jam 
to drink 
coffee 
10.2 
tea 
cream 
milk 
sugar 
drink 
'Would you .like a ,drink? 
names of beverages 
e.g. beer, fruit juice, mineral 
water, soft drinks, orange juice, 
water, wine 
ways of preparing food 
e.g. to bake, to boil, to fry, to 
grill, to mix, to peel, to stir 
fresh, freshly 
eating and drinking out 
snack bar 
coffee shop 
caf6 
Pub 
bar 
canteen 
self-service 
helpyourself. 
to serve 
service 0 
'No .service in the ,garden. 
'Service is induded in the ,bill. 
waiter 
waitress 
menu 
to choose 
to decide 
'Have you de,cided .yet? 
to order 
bill 
service charge 0 
to take away 0 
'Can I .take this a,way? 
tip 0 


<!-- pdf-page:85 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
79 
..........1..1.11...............1..1.1............. 
~o**..................*~a*..*.* 
11 
Sewices 
The learners can refer to, enquire about and make use of postal 
services, telephone, telegraph, bank, police, diplomatic services, 
medical services, car maintenance services and petrol stations. 
11.1 
post 
(See also Specific Notions 6.3.) 
post Offlce 
to post 
postman. 
mail. 
parcel 
p0-s 
0 
letter box 
collection 0 
posterestante 0 
(See also Specific Notions 1.3.) 
telephone booth 0 
phone booth 0 
callbox. 
operator 0 
11.7 
to dial 0 
out of order 0 
11.8 
11.5 
11.6 
11.2 
telephone 
11.3 
telegraph 
telegraph 0 
telegram 
word 
sender 0 
fax 
11.4 
bank 
(See also Specific Notions 9.6.) 
bank 
to change 
I'd 'like to -change '500 ,francs. 
currency 0 
cheque 
travellers' cheque 0 
to cash 
I'd 'like to .cash this ,cheque. 
accoullf 
I 'have an .ac,count I with the 
'Midland ,Bank. 
to b o r n 
to lend 
police 
See Specific Notions 6.6. 
to lose 
I've 'lost my ,passport. 
diplomatic services 
consul 
consulate 
embassy 
ambassador 0 
hospital, surgery, etc. 
See Specific Notions 7.5. 
garage 
garage 
trouble 
engine trouble 
brake 
engine 
lights 
steering 
to help 
to repair 
to work 
My 'brakes .don't +work. 
11.9 
petrol station 
(See also General Notions 
2.8.5.) 
petrol station 


<!-- pdf-page:86 -->
80 
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
petrol 
unleaded 
Oil 
oil change 0 
12 
13 
13.1 
14 
14.1 
.................................................................................. 
Places 
The learners can ask the way and give strangers directions. See General 
Notions 2.1-2.5 and Specific Notions 1.2 and 5.3. 
.................................................................................. 
Language 
The learners can refer to foreign-language ability and deal with 
problems of understanding and expression. 
ability, understanding, 
expression 
See Language Functions 
6.1-6.10 and General Notions 
5.2.7 and 5.2.13. In addition: 
language 
to read 
to speak 
to pronounce 
to understand 
to write 
well 
I 'cannot ,write .English .very 
.well. 
a little 
not at all 
to translate 
translation 
to interpret 
dictionary 
question 
'May I .ask a ,question? 
clear 
It's 'not ,clear to me. 
to explain 
mistake 
names of languages 
e.g. French, German, English, 
Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Swedish, 
Russian 
.................................................................................. 
Weather 
The learners can understand a weather forecast and exchange 
information and views on climate and weather conditions. 
climate and weather 
climate 
weather 
Sun 
s-Y 
sunshine 
to shine 
rain 
rainy 
to rain 


<!-- pdf-page:87 -->
7 
S P E C I F I C N O T I O N S 
a1 
fog 
f o w 
mist 0 
snow 
to snow 
ice 
frost 
to freeze 
wind 
storm 
gale 
thunderstorm 
snowstorm 
lightning 
fine 0 
It will be 'fine I to,rnorrow. 
mild 
shade 
'Shall we -sit in the ,shade? 


<!-- pdf-page:88 -->
a2 
8 Verbal exchange patterns 
Exponents of single language functions may occur in isolation. ‘Stop!’ 
as an order, and ‘Look out!’ as a warning, are obvious examples. On the 
whole, however, function exponents are more likely to occur in 
sequences. Such sequences will usually exhibit certain regularities in 
the order of their elements. Thus, an apology will very often be 
followed by an explanation: ‘I’m sorry I’m late, but I had to see my 
dentist first.’ Such more or less regularly occurring combinations may 
be referred to as patterns. Monologues may be thus patterned, if only in 
that they may start with an utterance calling for attention and end 
with one signalling termination. With regard to oral communication 
involving contributions by the learner the emphasis, at Threshold Level, 
is not so much on monologues as on verbal exchanges between two, or 
more than two, speakers. In such exchanges the participants may mesh 
their contributions in accordance with certain conventions. We then 
speak of verbal exchange patterns. It is a characteristic of these 
patterns that they are variable, in that a conversation may move in 
various directions. Especially when they are very short, however, 
involving only two or three utterances, they may also be standardised. 
This may be said, for instance, of the typical greeting + response pattern 
occurring when two people pass each other in the street. The large 
majority of the verbal exchange patterns, however, that are relevant to 
Threshold Level learners in the light of the objective are variable. We may 
illustrate this by reproducing two examples of ‘predictable fish-and- 
chip’ discourses provided by A. J. Peck in an article called ‘Some ideas 
on teaching discourse synthesis’ (the function labels are ours): 
1 
Sales person : ‘Yes? 
asking for wish (opening) 
Customer 
: ‘Haddock and ,chips. 
expressing wish 
Sales person : .That‘ll be ‘f 1 .,20 
Customer 
: (Gives money). 
(making payment) 
Sales person : {Thanks. 
thanking (term i nation) 
asking for payment 
2 
Sales person : ‘Yes? 
asking for wish (opening) 
Customer 
Sales person : ’Cod, I or ,plaice? 
asking for preference 
Customer 
: ,Plaice. 
expressing preference 
Sales person : ’Large, I or ,small 
asking for preference 
Customer 
: ,Large. 
expressing preference 
: ‘Fish and ,chips I - ,twice. expressing wish 
And ‘salt and ,vinegar. 
expressing further wish 


<!-- pdf-page:89 -->
8 
V E R B A L E X C H A N G E P A T T E R N S 
83 
Sales person : .That’ll be ‘f2.,30 
asking for payment 
Customer 
: (Gives money) 
(making payment: 
non-verbal termination) 
Apart from the variability (by no means exhausted here) of the ‘fish- 
andchips buying dialogue’, we note the occurrence of subpatterns as 
well as the integration of non-verbal turns. Communicative ability at 
Threshold Level implies the ability to play a part in verbal exchange 
patterns such as the ones illustrated above. 
A number of dialogue types (which may, in fact, involve more than two 
participants) are explicitly or implicitly covered by our objective. They 
involve the occurrence of verbal exchange patterns with a certain 
measure of predictability. They are particularly associated with the 
following communicative events. 
1 making purchases 
a) in a shop 
b) at a ticket counter, ticket from bus conductor, etc. 
restaurant, canteen, snack bar, etc. 
2 ordering food and drink 
3 making enquiries 
a) non-personal (where to go, where to eat, about opening hours, 
b) personal (about name, address, place of origin, etc.) 
about various facilities and services, etc.) 
4 meeting people 
a) strangers 
b) friends, acquaintances 
5 asking and showing the way 
6 asking and telling the time 
7 inviting and reacting to invitation 
8 arranging accommodation 
9 proposing a course of action and reacting to such proposals 
10 having a discussion 
However predictable the occurrence of certain verbal exchange 
patterns in the above dialogue types may be, there is always a strong 
element of unpredictability as well. When the more or less 
standardised patterns are broken, or even set aside completely, 
conversation does not lend itself to a didactically meaningful 
agreeing/disagreeing, exchanging views, etc. 


<!-- pdf-page:90 -->
84 
8 
V E R B A L E X C H A N G E P A T T E R N S 
description of the kind we try to provide in this document. ‘All we can 
be said to understand about such talk’ Peck observes, ‘is that certain 
elements occur frequently. These act as signposts along a road we are 
travelling.’ He adds: ‘We can teach pupils to recognise these elements 
of discourse and to use them themselves.’ 
Chapter 5 contains a classified list of the language functions, together 
with their common exponents, which are combined in verbal 
interaction. We have not thought it necessary, or even desirable, to 
attempt to spec@ the verbal interaction patterns to be used by learners 
(e.g. in the form of praxeograms). 
As we have shown, not even the most routine transactions of daily life 
are fully predictable. Many conditions may have to be fulfilled before a 
transaction can be successfully completed. A complex transaction may 
have to pass through numerous stages of negotiation each involving 
lengthy verbal exchanges. In routine cases many may be passed over in 
silence and the exchange limited to a few words on either side. Making 
travel arrangements, say, may take either form. We all know what it is 
like to queue behind someone who wishes to travel to a remote place 
involving different means of transport, choices of route, coordination 
of timetable, comparison of prices using different combinations of 
various categories of tickets, involving different currencies, wishing to 
use a foreign credit card, etc., when all one wishes to do oneself is to 
buy a single ticket to the next station, and the train is due to leave in 
five minutes. One wishes there were simply a ticket vending machine, 
in which case no oral interaction need - or indeed can - take place, but 
instead a set ofwritten instructions must be followed. The example 
could be paralleled in the settings of shopping, eating out, garages, and 
others where goods and services are required. In each case the services 
and/or goods must be identified, made available and paid for. Each 
stage may be carried out through personal interaction involving more 
or less verbal interaction or by self-service with or without 
mechanisation, normally eliminating verbal interaction in favour of 
written instructions. What is to be done at each stage may be self- 
evident, requiring no language, or a perfunctory exchange, or a brief 
unrelated interactional exchange to establish human contact. On the 
other hand, there may be choices to be exercised, preferences to be 
expressed, pros and cons to be discussed, conflicts of interest to be 
resolved, before the decisions can be made on which the next stage 
depends. At any time, communication difficulties may arise, needing 
to be dealt with by repair procedures. As social beings we have the 
larger schemata in our social competence, though it is only in 
exceptional circumstances that we need to follow the full process 
through in detail by means of language. In any case: 


<!-- pdf-page:91 -->
8 
V E R B A L E X C H A N G E P A T T E R N S 
85 
the schemata are largely shared by European societies. Where 
transactions and interactions are governed by different rules, 
effective communication and co-operation depend, of course, on 
mutual understanding between participants from different 
backgrounds (e.g. whether and how bargaining is conducted over 
prices, whether tipping is expected for small services, etc.); 
. 
the order in which the steps occur is not fmed; 
whether steps are made explicit or passed over in silence depends on 
the situation and on cultural conventions; 
. the ways in which objects are identified, preferences expressed, 
dissatisfaction or agreement shown and so on are not specific to 
particular situations (beyond the topicspecific words and 
expressions required). They are generalisable as resources which can 
be called on according to need in a wide range of situations. It is this 
principle which underlies the notional/functional approach as 
distinct from some other situational approaches. 
For these reasons, we do not specify here in an exhaustive way the 
patterns ofverbal interaction which a learner should be able to carry 
through in the situations envisaged. To attempt to do so would be at 
once too restrictive and over elaborate. In some cases (e.g. having a 
discussion) the possibilities of combining speech acts are virtually 
unlimited. In others (e.g. asking and telling the time) a twoterm exchange 
normally suffices, apart from non-specific opening and closing 
exchanges. A general schema, such as that presented below, may 
however be set up to cover, with certain adaptations, the various 
transactions involving the purchase of goods and services. 
General schema for purchase of goods or 
services 
1 Moving to place of transaction 
1.1 Finding the way to the shop, store, supermarket, restaurant, 
1.2 Finding the way to the counter, department, table, ticket office, 
station, hotel, etc. 
reception, etc. 
2 Establishing contact 
receptionist, etc. 
2.1.1 assistant greets 
2.1.2 customer greets 
2.1 Exchanging greetings with the shopkeeper/assistant/waiter/ 


<!-- pdf-page:92 -->
86 
8 
V E R B A L E X C H A N G E P A T T E R N S 
3 Selecting gooddservices 
3.1 identifying category of gooddservices required 
3.1.1 seeking information 
3.1.2 giving information 
3.2 identifying options 
3.3 discussing pros and cons of options (e.g. quality, price, colour, 
size of goods) 
3.3.1 seeking information 
3.3.2 giving information 
3.3.3 seeking advice 
3.3.4 giving advice 
3.3.5 asking for preference 
3.3.6 expressing preference etc. 
3.4 identifying particular goods required 
3.5 examining goods 
3.6 agreeing to purchase 
4 Exchanging goods for payment 
4.1 agreeing prices of items 
4.2 agreeing addition of total 
4.3 receiving/handing over payment 
4.4 receiving/handing over goods (and receipt) 
4.5 exchanging thanks 
4.5.1 assistant thanks 
4.5.2 customer thanks 
5 Leave taking 
5.1 expressing (mutual) satisfaction 
5.1 - 1 assistant expresses satisfaction 
5.1.2 customer expresses satisfaction 
5.2 exchanging interpersonal comment (e.g. weather, local gossip) 
5.3 exchanging parting greetings 
5.3.1 assistant greets 
5.3.2 customer greets 


<!-- pdf-page:93 -->
8 
V E R B A L E X C H A N G E P A T T E R N S 
07 
It will be seen that the sequence is not strictly linear. In hotels and 
restaurants 4.5 may come between 3.4 and 3.5, payment being made 
normally at the end of the meal or period of residence. In a village shop 
elements of 5.2 may be interspersed with any of the other stages. In the 
case of supermarkets and especially mechanised vending machines 2 
and 5 do not apply. 3.1-3.6 and 4.5-4.6 are carried out in silence by the 
customer in ‘dialogue’ with written descriptions and instructions - a 
process often preferred by foreign visitors and even native speakers as 
avoidance strategies against expected difficulties of interpersonal 
communication. 
It will also be seen that (4) is central. A minimal interaction consists of 
4.4 and 4.5, performed by actions without words. 
Peck 1: 3.1.1-3.4-4.1-(4.3)-4.5.1 
Peck 2: 3.1.1-3.1.2-3.2-3.4-3.2-3.4-3.4-4.1 -(4.3)-(4.4) 
Pecks examples are brief and businesslike, in a situation where choice 
is extremely restricted and prices are fmed. Other situations (e.g. a 
celebratory meal in an expensive restaurant, buying an expensive dress 
in a prestigious store) would call on more of the resources implied, as 
might the selection of hotel accommodation or the kind of complex 
travel arrangements outlined earlier. 


<!-- pdf-page:94 -->
In item 3 of the extended characterisation the ability to deal with written 
and spoken texts that is expected of learners at Threshold Level is related 
- and confined - to texts relevant to certain specified situations and to 
certain specified topics. What the learners can do with regard to these 
texts - the ‘tasks’ they can perform - is described in the same item as 
‘understanding the gist and/or relevant details’. In carrying out these 
tasks the learners may have to use certain interpretation strategies as 
listed under item 5 of the extended characterisation: 
distinguishing main points and secondary points 
distinguishing fact from comment 
identifylng relevant information 
making use of clues such as titles, illustrations, typography (e.g. 
bolding, italics, capitals), paragraphing, and, in oral texts, discourse 
markers such as phrasing, the placing of emphasis, structurally 
relevant pauses, tone of voice, etc. 
The nature of the texts to be understood is further defined by the 
following criteria: 
they have a clear structure, both conceptually and formally 
the information contained in them is exclusively or mainly offered 
their understanding presupposes little or no familiarity with 
explicitly 
specific features of a foreign culture, other than ‘general European 
culture’ 
. they are produced in an easily accessible form. 
No limitation is put on the kind of information to be understood from 
a text as defined above. This means that the understanding is not 
confined to factual information but may equally concern the 
expression of opinions, attitudes, moods and wishes, provided that 
particularly the second criterion above is satisfied. 
No indications are given as to the range and nature of the lexical 
content of texts to be understood. When a learner can use the strategies 
listed as 1.1-5 and 11.1-4 in the chapter on ‘compensation strategies’ 
(Chapter 12), there is no point in trying to specify the limits of the 
vocabulary content that the learners may be supposed to be able to deal 
with. This is all the more valid for reading, if the learners have access to 
a dictionary and know how to use it. It is assumed that with these 


<!-- pdf-page:95 -->
9 
R E A D I N G A N D L I S T E N I N G 
89 
devices and the command of a core vocabulary such as the one 
recommended in this volume the learners’ range of action - 
particularly as readers - is, as far as vocabulary is concerned, sufficient 
for the kinds of texts that fall within the terms of our definition. Only 
one further, and obvious, reservation has to be made with regard to 
vocabulary, and that is that the learners cannot be expected to be able 
to understand items whose meaning, in the available context, would be 
obscure to them even if the text had been produced in their native 
language. This would apply to items whose meaning would be, 
conceptually, beyond the learners’ mental reach. They would be 
unlikely to occur, however, in texts referred to in this specification. 
Although an exhaustive enumeration of text types that the learner at 
Threshold Level will be able to deal with is not possible, we shall list, by 
way of guidance and exemplification, those text types that at this level 
would seem to be particularly relevant in connection with the 
situations and the topics mentioned in items 1 and 2 of the extended 
characterisation. By ‘relevant’ we mean ‘relevant to the learners’ needs 
and interests’, and the implication of ‘at this level’ is that we exclude 
those text types which would be likely to make a much greater demand 
on the learners’ familiarity with the foreign language than may be 
expected at Threshold Level. The latter restriction leads to the exclusion 
of, for instance, the text type ‘rules and regulations’, which often 
requires familiarity with a highly formal register. 
Reading 
Text types related to the situations of the extended 
cha ra cterisa tion: 
Signs (e.g. street signs), directions (e.g. how to make a phone call), 
notices, instructions (e.g. warnings), posters, advertisements, 
brochures, leaflets, guides (e.g. hotel guides, city guides), price lists, 
timetables, bills, tickets, radio/IV/theatre programmes, legends (of 
maps), telephone directories, forms (e.g. landing forms, hotel 
registration forms), shop signs, product packaging (e.g. in 
supermarkets), instructions on automatic vending machines. 
Text types related to the topics of the extended 
characterisation: 
In addition to several text types listed under ‘situations’ above, the 
following: 
personal correspondence (letters, postcards, telegrams); informative 
articles, features, weather forecasts,frorn newspapers and magazines. 


<!-- pdf-page:96 -->
90 
9 
R E A D I N G A N D L I S T E N I N G 
Listening 
The range of text types proposed for listening is considerably narrower 
than that for reading. Generally, the understanding of orally produced 
texts is subject to time constraints: they are produced only once and in 
a linear form which does not allow the listener to go back to earlier 
parts or to reflect on the text as a whole as easily as may be done with 
written texts. It would, therefore, be unrealistic to expect a listening 
ability fully corresponding to what was included under ‘reading’. Such 
texts as news programmes on radio and especially on television with its 
stronger visual support may be partly understood by learners at 
Threshold Level but because of their low degree of predictability we 
would situate a general ability to understand their gist and/or relevant 
details at a somewhat higher level. However, learners at Threshold Level 
should be capable of understanding the gist and many relevant details 
of programmes (e.g. BBC World Service broadcasts) specifically directed 
to non-native audiences with correspondingly appropriate vocabulary, 
grammar and pronunciation. 
Text types for listening: 
Announcements/information through public address systems at bus 
stations, railway stations, airports, in flight, in discos, stadiums, at pop 
concerts, etc.; telephone information (e.g. automatic answering 
devices: weather, traffic conditions, medical services, timetables, etc.); 
weather forecasts (radio and TV); traffic information (radio); tourist 
information (e.g. through portable museum guides): publicity texts 
(radio, TV, supermarket, etc.); routine commands (instructions/ 
directions by police, customs officials, airline personnel, etc.). 
Notes 
1 All texts should satisfy the final criterion of item 3 of the extended 
characterisation (see Chapter 3). 
2 It is in accordance with the nature of the present specification as a 
general objective that we refrain from including such items as 
reviews from newspapers and magazines, short stories, poems, 
comic strips, flowcharts, etc., although it is likely that a learner who 
has at his disposal the linguistic content of Threshold Level would be 
able to understand much reading material of this kind. In order to 
meet the needs and interests of particular subgroups of the target 
population such items may, of course, be included in specific 
learning programmes as well as in adaptations of the objective for 
individual subgroups. 


<!-- pdf-page:97 -->
9 
R E A D I N G A N D L I S T E N I N G 
91 
3 The present specification is the specification of an objective, not of 
the content of a learning programme. This is why, apart from those 
listed in the first paragraph of this chapter, no mention is made in 
this chapter of further techniques that may be usefully employed 
towards achieving understanding of a text. These techniques, which 
include segmentation, the establishment of links between segments, 
underlining, notetaking and note-making, etc.. may be profitably 
practised in a learning programme designed to enable learners to do 
what is specified in our objective, but they are not presented as 
components of the objective itself because the extent to which each 
individual learner makes use of them in satisfylng the requirements 
of the objective is subject to personal variation. In the same way, 
such strategies as inferencing, hypothesising from proper names, 
international words, cognate words in the learner’s mother tongue 
or in other languages he or she may have learnt, are all too variable 
to be specified in a general performance objective. However, an 
awareness of such techniques and strategies, and experience in their 
use, form an important aspect of learning to learn (cf. Chapter 13). 


<!-- pdf-page:98 -->
92 
10 Writing 
The objective for writing at Threshold Level is very limited. It is assumed 
that for this skill the actual needs of the majority of the members of 
the target group who are expected to be temporaryvisitors do not go 
beyond the ability to fill in certain forms, to write a few types of 
standard letter, and to write simple personal letters on subjects of 
common interest to themselves and friends or acquaintances. All this 
falls strictly within items 1 and 2 of the extended characterisation. It may 
be specified as follows: 
The learners will be able to complete forms: 
hotel registration forms 
forms required when entering or leaving a foreign country 
The learners will be able to write standard letters: 
enquiring about price and conditions of accommodation 
stating wishes as to size of rooms, arrangement (full board, etc.), 
enquiring about tourist attractions, sights, etc. 
booking accommodation 
The learners will be able to conduct personal correspondence: 
simple messages such as greetings and congratulations 
simple private letters concerning matters of common interest to 
The writing requirements of temporary residents, as set out in the 
extended characterisation, are of a somewhat different character. These 
learners will almost certainly be called upon to complete a wider range 
of official forms. They may need to write letters enquiring about 
accommodation to rent, and if need be, letters of complaint to 
landlords. They may send written invitations and write brief letters of 
thanks for hospitality received. They may have to note down and relay 
messages (e.g. by telephone). They may have to write letters of 
application for jobs, to report briefly on accidents and complete 
insurance claims. As parents, they may need to write notes to school 
explaining a child’s absence. In carrying out the above tasks, the 
learner should be able to observe conventions regarding: 
basic letter layout 
* opening and closing formulae (See Language Functions 5.27-28) 
. representation of dates (See General Notions 3.3) 
amenities, view 
themselves and friends or acquaintances. 


<!-- pdf-page:99 -->
10 W R I T I N G 
93 
. useofcapitalsandpunctuation(, ; : , ! ?) 
These tasks can be accomplished within the limits of the resources 
required for the tasks specified at Threshold Level, using the techniques 
set out in Chapters 12 and 13. 


<!-- pdf-page:100 -->
94 
11 Sociocultural competence 
Items 4 and 6 of the extended characterisation are concerned with 
‘sociocultural competence’, the aspect of communicative ability which 
involves those specific features of a society and its culture which are 
manifest in the communicative behaviour of the members of this 
society. These features may be classified as ‘social conventions’ (4a), 
‘social rituals’ (4b) and ‘universal experiences’ (6). The degree of 
familiarity with them which is required for successful communication 
depends on the circumstances in which the communication takes 
place. It will probably be higher in contacts with native speakers of the 
foreign language (especially when the learner is a temporary resident 
rather than a visitor) than when the foreign language is used as lingua 
franca. The Threshold Level is designed to suit all these types of contacts. 
This means, on the one hand, that in attempting to indicate what may 
be expected of a learner at this level we have to focus on the more 
predictable type of contact, that with native speakers of the foreign 
language and particularly with such native speakers in their own 
country. On the other hand it means that an alertness has to be 
stimulated in the learners to unexpected sociocultural differences 
between their communication partners and themselves. This applies 
particularly when English is in use as a medium of international 
communication between non-native speakers from different cultures. 
Learners cannot take it for granted that their interlocutor will share 
either their own values, attitudes, beliefs and social conventions or 
those of AngleSaxon peoples. They will need to be alert to signs of 
cultural differences, to be tolerant of such differences and be prepared 
to operate whatever strategies may be needed to establish a proper basis 
for communication by raising cultural differences into consciousness. 
A first approach to a specification of sociocultural competence for 
Threshold Level is to be found in items 4 and 6 of the extended 
characterisation. The formulations chosen there are deliberately open- 
ended and exemplificatory. This will be the same in the present 
specification so that it may suit the needs and interests of our highly 
heterogeneous target population, further concretisations to be 
undertaken for each sub-group individually. The selection we present 
below has been made with the utmost economy, taking into account 
the overall height of the Threshold Level. 
Parts of the specification of sociocultural competence will correspond 
to most other components of the Threshold Level in that they will 
describe what the learners can do in the foreign language. Other parts, 
however, will be formulated in terms of the learners’ ‘awareness of or 
‘familiarity with’ certain aspects of the foreign culture. An attempt to 
formulate these parts as well in terms of the learners’ behaviour 


<!-- pdf-page:101 -->
11 S O C I O C U L T U R A L C O M P E T E N C E 
95 
potential would involve choices of such an arbitrary nature that their 
validity would be unacceptably low. What the specifications in terms of 
awareness and familiarity are meant to ensure is that at Threshold Level 
the learners will have had certain experiences, that they have been 
confronted with certain features of the foreign culture and that they 
have been led to pay attention to them and to try and relate them to 
their own previous experiences. 
In other words, these elements of the Threshold Level objective are 
concerned with learning experiences that the learner is supposed to 
have had. What the learners do with these experiences and how they 
affect their own attitudes and behaviour is deliberately left open. This 
is done to provide the fullest possible scope for the accommodation of 
the large variety of emphases that will be required for different 
courses, for different types of learners, and even for individual 
learners. 
Sociocultural competence for English at 
Threshold Level 
I 
Universal experiences 
1 
everydaylife 
The learners have some familiarity with: 
at what times people have their regular meals and in what ways the 
composition of meals, including beverages, typically differs from 
that in their own country; 
major national holidays; 
working hours: 
preferred leisure activities (to the extent that generalisation is 
possible). 
2 
living conditions 
The learners have some familiarity with: 
living standards, including significant differences between major 
ethnic composition of the population. 
parts of a country: 


<!-- pdf-page:102 -->


<!-- pdf-page:103 -->


<!-- pdf-page:104 -->


<!-- pdf-page:105 -->


<!-- pdf-page:106 -->


<!-- pdf-page:107 -->


<!-- pdf-page:108 -->


<!-- pdf-page:109 -->


<!-- pdf-page:110 -->


<!-- pdf-page:111 -->


<!-- pdf-page:112 -->


<!-- pdf-page:113 -->


<!-- pdf-page:114 -->


<!-- pdf-page:115 -->


<!-- pdf-page:116 -->


<!-- pdf-page:117 -->


<!-- pdf-page:118 -->


<!-- pdf-page:119 -->


<!-- pdf-page:120 -->


<!-- pdf-page:121 -->


<!-- pdf-page:122 -->


<!-- pdf-page:123 -->


<!-- pdf-page:124 -->


<!-- pdf-page:125 -->


<!-- pdf-page:126 -->


<!-- pdf-page:127 -->


<!-- pdf-page:128 -->


<!-- pdf-page:129 -->


<!-- pdf-page:130 -->


<!-- pdf-page:131 -->


<!-- pdf-page:132 -->


<!-- pdf-page:133 -->


<!-- pdf-page:134 -->


<!-- pdf-page:135 -->


<!-- pdf-page:136 -->


<!-- pdf-page:137 -->


<!-- pdf-page:138 -->


<!-- pdf-page:139 -->


<!-- pdf-page:140 -->


<!-- pdf-page:141 -->


<!-- pdf-page:142 -->


<!-- pdf-page:143 -->


<!-- pdf-page:144 -->


<!-- pdf-page:145 -->


<!-- pdf-page:146 -->


<!-- pdf-page:147 -->


<!-- pdf-page:148 -->


<!-- pdf-page:149 -->


<!-- pdf-page:150 -->


<!-- pdf-page:151 -->


<!-- pdf-page:152 -->


<!-- pdf-page:153 -->


<!-- pdf-page:154 -->


<!-- pdf-page:155 -->


<!-- pdf-page:156 -->


<!-- pdf-page:157 -->


<!-- pdf-page:158 -->


<!-- pdf-page:159 -->


<!-- pdf-page:160 -->


<!-- pdf-page:161 -->


<!-- pdf-page:162 -->


<!-- pdf-page:163 -->


<!-- pdf-page:164 -->


<!-- pdf-page:165 -->


<!-- pdf-page:166 -->


<!-- pdf-page:167 -->


<!-- pdf-page:168 -->


<!-- pdf-page:169 -->


<!-- pdf-page:170 -->


<!-- pdf-page:171 -->


<!-- pdf-page:172 -->


<!-- pdf-page:173 -->


<!-- pdf-page:174 -->


<!-- pdf-page:175 -->


<!-- pdf-page:176 -->


<!-- pdf-page:177 -->


<!-- pdf-page:178 -->


<!-- pdf-page:179 -->


<!-- pdf-page:180 -->


<!-- pdf-page:181 -->


<!-- pdf-page:182 -->


<!-- pdf-page:183 -->


<!-- pdf-page:184 -->


<!-- pdf-page:185 -->


<!-- pdf-page:186 -->


<!-- pdf-page:187 -->


<!-- pdf-page:188 -->


<!-- pdf-page:189 -->


<!-- pdf-page:190 -->


<!-- pdf-page:191 -->


<!-- pdf-page:192 -->
