===== PAGE 16 =====
10 
1 The objective: levels of 
specifilcity 
The objective will be formulated in three stages, or at three levels of 
specificity: 
1 General characterisation 
2 Extended characterisation 
3 Specification 
The general characterisation is meant as an overall description for rapid 
orientation. 
The extended characterisation is a detailed description for all potentially 
interested parties, including the learners themselves. 
The specification is a fully detailed description meant for course 
designers, curriculum planners, test constructors, etc. 


===== PAGE 17 =====
11 
2 The objective: general 
characterisation 
As temporary visitors to, or temporary residents in, a country where 
the foreign language is used for general communication purposes, 
when dealing with foreign visitors or temporary residents in their 
own country, using English as a common means of communication, 
in contact with native or with non-native speakers of the foreign 
language in another foreign country, 
when encountering written or spoken texts in the foreign language, 
the learners will be able to use the foreign language in such a way as to 
cope with the (principally linguistic) requirements of those situations 
they are most likely to find themselves in, particularly: 
situations, including practical transactions in everyday life, 
requiring a largely predictable language use; 
situations involving personal interaction. enabling the learners to 
establish and to maintain social contacts, including those made in 
business contacts; 
understanding of the gist and/or relevant details of written or 
spoken texts. 
situations involving indirect communication, requiring the 


===== PAGE 18 =====
12 
3 
1 
1.1 
1.1.1 
1.1.2 
1.1.3 
1.1.4 
The objective: extended 
characterisation 
Learners will be able to cope with transactional situations of 
everyday life requiring a largely predictable use of language. 
Contacts with officials 
In all contacts with officials learners should be able to ask for 
repetition, clarification and explanation, etc. of any information, 
questions or documents not understood, and should be able to ask for 
the services of an interpreter and/or legal adviser in case of serious 
difficulty (cf. Chapter 12). 
Immigration 
Learners should be able to understand and complete necessary 
documentation. 
Learners should be able to understand and answer questions 
concerning: 
personal identification (cf. Chapter 7,l.l-1.12) 
the duration and purpose of their visit 
Customs officers 
Learners should be able to understand and complete necessary 
documentation. 
Learners should be able to understand and answer necessary questions 
concerning: 
whether they have dutiable items to declare 
the contents of their luggage and the value of items 
where they have come from and where they have acquired items of 
whether items are for personal use or as gifts or for commercial use 
Security officers 
Learners should be able to understand and answer questions covering: 
the contents of their hand-baggage 
whether their baggage contains specified items (e.g. electronic 
Police, traffic wardens, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
. understand and answer questions concerning: 
property 
equipment, real or toy weapons, etc.) 


===== PAGE 19 =====
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
13 
1.2 
1.2.1 
1.2.2 
- personal identification 
- details of any vehicle they drive 
- details of any property lost or stolen 
- their recent actions 
- their intentions and reasons for acting 
minor infringements of regulations 
regulations (parking, public access to buildings, etc.) 
apologise and ask for understanding of their position in case of 
ask questions and understand the answers given regarding 
(See also 1.11 ‘Finding the way’.) 
summon police assistance in the case of emergency (e.g. an accident, 
Arrangements for accommodation 
(See Specific Notions 2.1-6.) 
Accommodation for visitors 
Learners should be able to: 
book accommodation by letter or telephone 
enquire about the nature and availability of accommodation in 
travel agents, or on arrival at a hotel, guest house, camp site, etc. 
complete registration forms 
complain and secure rectification of poor service, malfunctioning 
complete departure procedures, query bills, etc. 
Accommodation for temporary residents 
Learners should be able to: 
enquire, in writing or speech, about accommodation to rent, e.g. 
assault, robbery) 
equipment, etc. 
- the number, type and size of rooms 
- the cost (per week, month or year) and terms of letting 
- the charges, services and amenities provided (e.g. local taxes, gas, 
- the arrangements for repairs and maintenance 
make and confirm inventories of contents and their condition 
make arrangements for and supervise household removal 
make arrangements for services, repairs and maintenance as 
make oral and written complaints to landlord 
water, electricity, etc., furniture and household equipment) 
required 


===== PAGE 20 =====
14 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
1.3 
Arrangements for meals 
Learners should be able to: 
read and understand advertisements of restaurants, menus, etc. 
discuss the relative merits of accommodation, food, prices, waiting 
ask for a (particular) table 
order food and drink 
ask and understand answers to questions on the nature and 
preparation of dishes 
ask for bill, enquire whether service and tax are included 
query and complain of slow service, poor food, overcharging, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
read advertisements in newspapers, magazines, etc. for shops and 
read for gist simple explanatory documentation on the nature, use 
read signposting in supermarkets, departmental stores, etc. 
ask whether goods are available and where they are to be found 
discuss the nature and relative merits of particular choices of goods 
negotiate prices and understand conditions of sale 
make payments and if necessary query prices, addition of bills, etc. 
return faulty, inappropriate or unwanted goods and negotiate 
time, etc. 
1.4 
Shopping: buying consumer goods 
consumer goods 
and conditions of sale of goods 
replacement, refund, etc. 
1.5 
Using public transport 
Learners should be able to: 
read publicised information (e.g. timetables, types and conditions of 
enquire as to cost, times, routes ofjourneys 
discuss relative merits of different means of transport and 
order, query and pay for tickets (e.g. destination, class of travel, 
enquire as to location of gates/bays/platforms/quays, 
etc. of planes, 
sale of tickets) 
companies (e.g. duration, cost, conditions of travel) 
single or return, route, dates), reserve seats, etc. 
buses, trains, ships, etc. 


===== PAGE 21 =====
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
15 
register luggage for despatch, use left luggage facilities, report loss of 
(for temporary residents) 
enquire about the existence of special rates, etc. and their terms and 
or damage to luggage and property 
conditions 
1.6 
Using private transport (car) 
Leaners should be able to: 
read, query and complete documentation for car hire 
read mandatory and advisory official road signs 
obtain petrol, oil, water, air and services at service stations 
report and secure repair of mechanical faults and breakdowns 
exchange necessary car and insurance details in case of accident 
(See also 1.1.4, Contacts with police, traffic warden, etc. and 1.11, 
Finding the way.) 
Learners should be able to: 
make personal and telephone enquiries 
Visiting public places (museums, theatres, stadiums, discos, 
etc.) 
Learners should be able to: 
read publicised guides to tourist attractions, (newspaper 
1.7 
Using information services 
1.8 
entertainment guides, brochures of particular institutions, posters, 
handbills, etc.) 
times, position and nature of seats 
enquire about opening times, prices of admission, performance 
book tickets in advance, or purchase at time of admission 
enquire about facilities and amenities (toilets, refreshments, 
programmes, etc.) 
1.9 
Using public services 
1.9.1 Post office 
Learners should be able to: 
read simple published regulations, counter signs, etc. for specific 
enquire about postage rates, etc. (e.g. first and second class, letters, 
information 
postcards, destination categories, registered and express post, 
parcels, telegrams and fax facilities) 


===== PAGE 22 =====
16 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
purchase stamps, postal and money orders 
complete customs declarations, registration forms, etc. 
Learners should be able to: 
read instructions on use of telephone 
consult telephone directories (including yellow pages) 
use telephone directory enquiries 
(See also Language Functions 5.21-5.26.) 
Learners should be able to: 
read public notices (especially service tills, currency regulations and 
enquire about exchange rates for notes/travellers’ cheques 
enquire about use of cheques, credit cards, etc. 
(for temporary residents) 
enquire about, set up and use bank accounts 
Learners should be able to: 
read notices (e.g. consultation hours, specialisms, signposting of 
ask for hospital or general practitioner appointment (by telephone) 
explain nature of complaint and answer questions on place and 
understand instructions for treatment at the time and subsequently 
obtain medication from pharmacist 
Educational services (for temporary residents) 
learners should be able to: 
read brochures (e.g. ofARELS, British Council and particular 
1.9.2 Telephone 
1.9.3 
Bank 
exchange rates) 
1.9.4 Medical services 
hospital departments, instructions to patients) 
nature of ache or pain and other symptoms 
1.10 
1.10.1 As students: 
teaching institutions and language schools) and follow admission 
procedures 
understand and use target language as medium of instruction and 
as language of social interaction in English language classes and 
among learners during breaks, at mealtimes, etc. 
report and discuss problems relating to learning, teaching, study 
facilities, social activities, accommodation, canteen meals, etc. 


===== PAGE 23 =====
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
17 
discuss and enter for examinations 
read examination regulations, rubrics and questions 
learners should be able to: 
enquire about arrangementsloptions for the publiclprivate 
1.10.2 As parents: 
education of their children (e.g. types of school, entry requirements, 
cost, dates of terms, equipment required) 
make day-today arrangements for school attendance 
read simple notes and reports on children’s progress 
attend parent/teacher meetings to discuss children’s progress 
Learners should be able to: 
read maps (road maps, train, tube and bus networks, and other 
direction signs and instructions) 
enquire from officials, service station staff or members of the public 
how to get to certain destinations, where a particular road or railway 
line leads to, the destination of a bus or train, etc. 
1.11 Finding the way 
give similar information to others 
1.12 Communicating at work 
1.12.1 As temporary residents learners should be able to: 
seek work permits, etc. as required 
enquire (e.g. from employment agencies) about the nature, 
availability and conditions of employment (e.g. job description, pay, 
hours of work, free time and holidays, length of notice) 
read employment advertisements 
write letters of application and attend interviews giving written or 
spoken information about own personal data, qualifications and 
experience and answer questions about them 
understand and follow joining procedures 
understand and ask questions concerning the tasks to be performed 
understand safety and security regulations and instructions 
report an accident and make an insurance claim 
make use of welfare facilities 
communicate appropriately with superiors, colleagues and 
subordinates 
on starting work 


===== PAGE 24 =====
i a 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
participate in the social life of the enterprise or institution (e.g. 
1.12.2 As a member of the host community, a learner should be able to assist 
an English-speaking (native or non-native) person with the tasks listed 
above. 
(See Language functions, socialising.) 
A learner should be able: 
canteen, sports and social clubs, etc.) 
1.13 Private hospitality 
1.13.1 as host, to: 
issue an invitation, written or spoken 
greet and introduce guests 
explain about features of domestic arrangements 
follow social routines and exercise socialising functions 
exchange information and opinions on personal and social themes 
receive or exchange souvenirs or small gifts 
say goodbye to guests and react appropriately to expressions of 
appreciation 
1.13.2 as guest, to: 
reply appropriately to accept or decline spoken and written 
exchange greetings with host and other guests, known or newly met, 
follow social routines and exercise socialising functions 
exchange information and opinions on personal and social themes 
offer flowers or small gifts 
express appreciation of hospitality given 
take leave, making or confirming travel arrangements as required 
In the sphere of soaal interaction the learner has the ability: 
to exchange information 
to express, and to understand the expression of, opinions, views, 
to agree upon and carry out ccloperative actions 
The above in relation to topics of personal and of general interest, 
particularly: 
invitations 
whether introduced or not 
2 
attitudes, emotions, wishes 
personal life and circumstances 


===== PAGE 25 =====
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
19 
living conditions 
trade, profession, occupation 
education 
freetime activities 
travelling, regions, places, sights 
consumer goods, shopping, prices 
eating and drinking 
social relations 
politics, current events 
weather 
languages, language learning, language problems 
For details, see Chapter 7, Specific Notions. 
3 
The learner can understand the gist and/or relevant details of 
written and of spoken texts which have the following 
characteristics: 
they are relevant to the situations listed under (1) above or to the 
they have a clear structure, both conceptually and formally 
the information contained in them is exclusively or mainly offered 
their understanding requires no or only little familiarity with a 
they are produced in an easily accessible form: 
topics under (2) above 
explicitly 
foreign culture, other than ‘general European culture’ 
- written texts are clearly printed and, when appropriate, provided 
with titles, paragraphing, illustrations etc. 
- spoken texts are produced with minimal acoustic distortion, in 
the standard pronunciation or a close approximation of this, and 
at a speech rate which is in the lower range of what is normal 
In connection with (1) and (2) above the learner is familiar with 
relevant social conventions, e.g. 
non-linguistic: physical contact (hand-shaking, kissing, touching, etc.), 
significant roles of gesture and mime, etc. 
linguistic: verbal ways of drawing attention, ways of addressing, 
choosing degree of formality/informality, turn taking, contact 
ending, etc., in accordance with normal conventions of politeness. 
(See Chapter 11.) 
4a 


===== PAGE 26 =====
20 
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
b 
In connection with (2) the learner is, moreover, familiar with relevant 
social rituals, e.g. 
visiting rituals (appropriate time for arriving, present giving, 
eating and drinking rituals 
acceptance and refusal rituals 
In connection with (3) above the learner can use appropriate 
interpretation strategies both as a reader and as a listener, e.g. 
distinguishing main points and secondary points 
distinguishing fact from comment 
identifying relevant information. This may involve determining the 
audience for whom the text was produced and the attitudes and 
communicative intentions of the author, as well as drawing 
inferences from what is explicit in the text 
making use of clues such as titles, illustrations, typographical 
devices (e.g. bolding, italicising, underlining, paragraphing), and, in 
oral texts, such discourse markers as the placing of emphasis, 
structurally relevant pauses, tone of voice, etc. 
acceptable conversation topics, etc.) 
5 
6 
The learner has some familiantywith characteristic features of the 
foreign culture (i.e. the culture of the major, or one of the major, 
countries where the language is used as native language), 
particularly those affecting: 
everyday life 
living conditions 
interpersonal relations 
major values and attitudes 
The learner can use techniques and strategies for coping with 
demands of situations which go beyond hisher non-linguistic and/or 
linguistic repertoire, e.g. 
engaging a communication partner’s ccmperation in filling a gap in 
appealing to tolerance of a foreigner’s ‘awkwardness’, etc. 
strategies for ‘getting one’s meaning across’ in spite of inadequate 
strategies for deriving meaning from texts in spite of the occurrence 
strategies for enlisting the communication partner’s help in solving 
7 
one’s know-how 
command of the linguistic code 
of unknown elements 
communication problems 


===== PAGE 27 =====
3 
E X T E N D E D C H A R A C T E R I S A T I O N 
21 
using appropriate aids such as dictionaries, word lists, grammars, 
and other reference materials. 


===== PAGE 28 =====
22 
4 The objective: components of 
the specification 
A communicative approach aims to enable the learners to use a foreign 
language for their own purposes. What these purposes are, depends on 
the personality, the circumstances, the needs and interests of the 
learners themselves. They are never fully predictable, but, starting 
from a particular target group, however heterogeneous it may be, we 
can make an attempt to identify those things that all of them are at 
least very likely to need or wish to be able to do in the foreign language. 
In order to do this in any useful way we have to try and determine in 
what situations they are most likely to use the foreign language, what 
roles they will play in these situations, and what matters they are most 
likely to have to be able to deal with in the foreign language. 
Determining all this - especially if we want to arrive at a fairly detailed 
description - is. in a way, a matter of guesswork. However, we can make 
at least better educated guesses if we make use of our collective 
experience, our knowledge of the world, and of whatever amount of 
consensus would appear to have been - explicitly or implicitly - 
achieved. In fact, the information on this that is available now is by no 
means negligible. It may be found in numerous studies that have 
appeared since the Threshold Level was originally published, and it is to 
be found in the choices made in those course materials with a 
communicative orientation that have been produced in the last 20 
years or so. By and large, the assumptions made in the original 
l'hreshold Level would seem to have been widely upheld, so that the basis 
for the present specification is a more solid one than for the earlier 
one. Yet, it should be constantly borne in mind that these assumptions 
are made with regard to what the members of a very large target group 
are supposed to have in common and that the undoubtedly 
considerable individual differences among these members are 
deliberately left out of account. This is just another way of saying that 
the Threshold Level is a general objective only, and, moreover, one that is 
never to be regarded as fixed and closed but as something to be used 
flexibly and creatively. 
In the preceding general characterisation and particularly in the extended 
characterisation we described the Threshold Level objective. The question is 
now how this may be most usefully specified, how it may be broken 
down into a coherent set of elements that may serve the purposes of 
those for whom the specification is meant. 
Our starting-point is the situations in which the learners are most 
likely to find themselves. Each situation will make its own demands on 
their communicative resources. At the same time, these demands have 


===== PAGE 29 =====
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
23 
a lot in common, something which requires what we may regard as 
general communicative ability. An economical description, then, of 
what the learners need to be able to do, will specify the components of 
this general communicative ability plus, for each situation envisaged, 
the specific ability required to function adequately in it. The general 
ability, the ability required in most communication situations, will be 
the subject of by far the greater part of our specification. In fact, there 
will be only one component that is directly concerned with specific 
situation-related ability, and - as is to be expected - this will largely be 
a matter of concrete vocabulary items. 
A communicative approach does not consider knowledge of the 
language - however desirable this may be - as an end in itself. Its goal is 
the ability to use language, to do with language the kind of things one 
needs or wants to do with it. 
The starting-point of the specification of our objective, then, is a list of 
the kind of things people may do by means of language. These are 
things such as describing, enquiring, denying, thanking, apologising, 
expressing feelings, etc. We refer to these things as ‘language 
functions’ and we say that in saying, for instance, ‘I’m sorry’ people 
fulfil the language function of apologising or of expressing regret. The 
first component of our specification is a list of those language 
functions that the members of our target group are most likely to need 
to be able to fulfil. 
Language functions are not fulfilled in a void, with regard to nothing. 
If we say ‘I’m sorry’, we apologise for or express regret about something, 
even though we may not mention this explicitly because it is 
sufficiently clear from the context in which the utterance is produced. 
If, however, we were to say ‘I’m sowy for being late’, we explicitly refer to a 
particular concept, the concept of ‘lateness’. The concepts that we may 
refer to while fulfilling language functions will be indicated here as 
‘notions’. Among the notions we distinguish ‘general notions’ and 
‘specific notions’. General notions are such as may be expressed in 
almost any situation and specific notions are those which are likely to 
be expressed typically in particular situations only. In most situations 
the need may arise to refer to time, to place, to quantity or quality, to 
express relations between entities, etc. The notions involved in this will 
be listed in our second component as ‘general notions’. A notion such 
as ‘timetable’, on the other hand, is likely to be expressed only in a 
situation of people dealing with ‘travelling’; the notion of ‘potatoes’ is 
most likely to be expressed in connection with ‘eating’ or with 
‘agriculture’. Such situation-related or topic-related notions will be 
listed in our third component, ‘specific notions’. In this third 
component we shall also give general indications as to what people will 
be supposed to be able to do in each of the situations or with regard to 
each topic included here. Such indications facilitate and justify the 
selection of those notions which may be thought particularly relevant 
to the members of the target group. 


===== PAGE 30 =====
24 
4 
C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E S P E C I F I C A T I O N 
Before passing on to other components of our specification we wish to 
point out that the above distinctions between functions and notions on 
the one hand and between general notions and specific notions on the 
other cannot always be made with full consistency. Thus, it may be 
argued that certain language functions may just as well be interpreted 
as expressing notions and that for certain notions the choice between 
‘general’ and ‘specific’ seems to be an arbitrary one. There is no 
denying that our system of classification has its shortcomings. Yet, it 
does ensure the fullest possible coverage, and it has fully proved its 
value for practical purposes. 
The breakdown of language use in terms of the fulfilment of certain 
functions with regard to certain notions may obscure the fact that in 
actual communication situations these functions are rarely fulfilled in 
isolation. Usually a communication situation will require the 
fulfilment of general functions in various combinations and sequences. 
In general, the predictability of these combinations and sequences is 
highly limited. Yet, there are certain features and patterns that occur 
more or less regularly. and some familiarity with them is indispensable 
for effective communication. A number of these features are included 
in our list of language functions under ‘structuring discourse’, and a 
more general treatment particularly with regard to dialogues will be 
given in the chapter on ‘verbal exchange patterns’ (Chapter 8). 
One of the differences between the present objective and the original 
Threshold Level is the stronger emphasis on the ability to deal with 
printed texts and with spoken texts produced by media. This ability is 
listed as item 3 in the ‘extended characterisation’. Because of this 
stronger emphasis we include in our specification a separate chapter 
on ‘dealing with texts’ (Chapter 9). 
We also include a short chapter on writing (Chapter 10). because it may 
be convenient to have a survey of what may be expected of learners at 
this level, rather than having to collect this from several different parts 
of the specification. 
The fulfilment of language hnctions and their sequencing will, to a 
certain extent, be governed by the social conventions which are 
observed in a particular language community. These conventions are 
part of the sociocultural context in which the language concerned is 
used as the medium of communication. This context may have a strong 
influence on what people express and how they express it. Even at 
Threshold Level some familiarity with this context, or at least awareness 
of its potential significance, is essential to effective communication. It 
will be dealt with in a separate chapter of our specification, called 
‘sociocultural competence’ (Chapter 11). 
In many real-life communication situations the learners’ resources, in 
terms of knowledge, skills and insights, will fall short of the 


